- In :ref:`algm-CreatePoleFigureTableWorkspace`, two new options have been added to the inputs. ``SpectraWorkspace`` allows the user to provide a name for a new output workspace which contains spectra corresponding to rows in the standard ``OutputWorkspace`` table. ``IncludeSpectrumInfo`` is a flag which adds information columns to the final ``OutputWorkspace`` about where each spectra has come from.
- ``texture_helper.py`` has been created to hold stand alone texture functionality which is independent of specific instrument workflows or workflow classes.
- ``show_texture_sample_shape`` in ``texture_helper.py`` is a new standalone function which allows the user to show the sample present on a workspace along with the texture sample directions, and optionally a gauge volume.
- ``load_all_orientations`` in ``texture_helper.py`` is a new standalone function which allows the user to take a sequence of workspaces and apply sample orientations, loaded from an input file (as described in the :ref:`orientation file section <OrientationSection>` of the :ref:`Texture Analysis Concept doc <TextureAnalysis>`)
- ``create_pole_figure_tables`` in ``texture_helper.py`` is a new standalone function which allows the user to directly create a single pole figure table for a sequence of workspaces and their fit parameters.
- ``plot_pole_figure`` in ``texture_helper.py`` is a new standalone function which allows the user to directly create a pole figure plot for a pole figure table.
- Pole Figure plots can now be created from ``texture_helper`` functions with a debug flag which allows interactive annotation of points in the pole figure by holding "a" key on the keyboard and clicking.
