=================
Framework Changes
=================

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:

Algorithms
----------

New features
############
- :ref:`algm-PaalmanPingsAbsorptionCorrection` has been updated to use beam properties from :ref:`algm-SetBeam` to determine ``GaugeVolume`` if no volume is defined.
- :ref:`CreateDetectorTable<algm-CreateDetectorTable>` now has an optional argument, ``IncludeDetectorPosition``, which, if `True`, will add a column, ``Position``, to the end of the ``DetectorTable``. This column has the detector position as a ``V3D`` type object for each spectrum in the table.
- ``Divide`` now has an optional argument, ``IsDistribution``, to force the output distribution type.
- :ref:`DiffractionFocussing <algm-DiffractionFocussing-v2>` has a new optional boolean parameter ``FullBinsOnly``.  When set, final bins of width less than the step-size are omitted from the output spectra.
- New algorithm :ref:`algm-CreateBootstrapWorkspaces` for creating randomly simulated samples for performing Bootstrap analysis.
- The c++ function ``getAlwaysStoreInADS`` has been exposed to python, now accessible from an instance of ``PythonAlgorithm``. This is a more reliable way than ``isChild`` to check if output workspaces are to be stored in the ADS.
- New option in :ref:`algm-GetIPTS` to maintain a list of IPTS for supplied runs. This does not persist across sessions.
- In :ref:`algm-SetGoniometer`, you can now directly pass a comma separated string of 9 values corresponding to the (row major) flattened rotation matrix.
- In :ref:`algm-MonteCarloAbsorption`, when a gauge volume has been defined with :ref:`algm-DefineGaugeVolume`, the algorithm now uses this gauge volume to generate the scattering points for calculating attenuation within the sample.
- ``AnyShapeAbsorption`` can now determine the gauge volume by using the BeamProfile
- New algorithm :ref:`algm-DebyeWallerFactorCorrectionMD` to scale the MDEvents by the inverse of Debye-Waller form factor.
- New algorithm :ref:`algm-CombineTableWorkspaces` allows combination of a pair of :ref:`Table Workspaces`, provided they have matching column names and data types.

Bugfixes
############
- Fixed bug when calculating pixel groups in :ref:`GenerateGroupingPowder <algm-GenerateGroupingPowder>` where under certain conditions the number of pixels in a group was not calculated correctly. This could lead to incorrect grouping of pixels in the output workspace. The issue was caused by an incorrect handling of the pixel indices when calculating the groups. The fix ensures that the pixel indices are handled correctly, resulting in accurate grouping of pixels in the output workspace.
- In the script generated by :ref:`GeneratePythonFitScript <algm-GeneratePythonFitScript>` titles for the subplots were replaced by meaningful legends so that labels of output subplots do not overlap.
- Fixed a bug in 'Unweighted least squares' cost function in Mantid fit. It was discovered not to work as expected when the fit was compared with scipy library.
- As part of the fix a new parameter named ``IgnoreInvalidData`` defaulted to ``false`` has been introduced into :ref:`CalculatePolynomialBackground <algm-CalculatePolynomialBackground>` and :ref:`algm-DirectILLTubeBackground` algorithms so that it can be forwarded into the :ref:`algm-Fit` algorithm.
- In :ref:`algm-PoldiFitPeaks2D` ``IgnoreInvalidData`` parameter is defaulted to ``true`` when invoking :ref:`algm-Fit` to preserve existing behaviour.
- The ``IgnoreInvalidData`` parameter defaulted to ``false`` has been introduced into :ref:`algm-ReflectometryBackgroundSubtraction`
- ``InstrumentArrayConverter`` and ``PeakData`` utility classes used in peak integration algorithms have been moved into a common module located at ``plugins.algorithms.peakdata_utils.py``. Import paths related to those classes need to be updated from ``from plugins.algorithms.IntegratePeaksSkew import InstrumentArrayConverter, PeakData`` into ``from plugins.algorithms.peakdata_utils import InstrumentArrayConverter, PeakData``.
- Fixed :ref:`ConvertUnits <algm-ConvertUnits>` when input workspace is a :ref:`ragged workspaces <Ragged_Workspace>` with point data.
- Fixed an out of bounds error coming from :ref:`algm-IntegratePeaksShoeboxTOF` when integrating peaks.
- Fixes a bug in  :ref:`algm-Divide` where units were not properly cleared when dividing two :ref:`ragged_workspace <Ragged_Workspace>` with identical Y-axis Units. This issue could cause errors in downstream data reduction workflows where the resulting workspace should be unitless. The fix ensures proper unit handling for :ref:`ragged_workspace <Ragged_Workspace>` division operations.
- Fix issue with :ref:`GroupDetectors <algm-GroupDetectors-v2>` where the algorithm would freeze on large datasets while adding EventList to the Output Workspace. Testing with TOPAZ-50006 execution time was reduced from 2+ hours to ~30 seconds.
- Fixes a bug in :ref:`algm-LoadAndMerge` where output workspaces were stored in the ADS when set not to. This caused the leaking of temporary workspaces in algorithms that call :ref:`algm-LoadAndMerge` as a child. Legacy behaviour can be achieved by passing ``StoreInADS=True`` to the algorithm.
- Add `MandatoryValidator<OptionalBool>` to property declaration in Divide algorithm
- :ref:`SaveNexusProcessed <algm-SaveNexusProcessed>`: fix SEGFAULT due to slab size to data size mismatch, on write of ragged workspaces.

Deprecated
############
- The AlignDetectors algorithm was deprecated in :ref:`Release 6.1 <v6.1.0>` and has now been removed. Please use a combination of :ref:`ApplyDiffCal <algm-ApplyDiffCal>` and :ref:`ConvertUnits <algm-ConvertUnits>` instead.
- :ref:`algm-IntegratePeaksMD-v1` has been deprecated, use :ref:`algm-IntegratePeaksMD-v2` instead.
- :ref:`UnwrapMonitorsInTOF <algm-UnwrapMonitorsInTOF>` has been deprecated. There is no replacement.
- :ref:`UnwrapSNS <algm-UnwrapSNS>` has been deprecated. There is no replacement.
- Property ``UnwrapRef`` has been deprecated for algorithms that previously
  called deprecated algorithm :ref:`UnwrapSNS <algm-UnwrapSNS>`:
  :ref:`AlignAndFocusPowder <algm-AlignAndFocusPowder>`,
  :ref:`AlignAndFocusPowderFromFiles <algm-AlignAndFocusPowderFromFiles>`
  and :ref:`SNSPowderReduction <algm-SNSPowderReduction>`.
- :ref:`LoadEventPreNexus <algm-LoadEventPreNexus>` has been deprecated. There is no replacement.
- :ref:`IntegratePeaksCWSD <algm-IntegratePeaksCWSD>` has been deprecated. There is no replacement.
- :ref:`UnwrapMonitor <algm-UnwrapMonitor>` has been deprecated. There is no replacement.

Removed
############
- The Transpose3D algorithm (also known as SINQTranspose3D) was deprecated in :ref:`Release 3.9.0 <v3.9.0>` and has now been removed. Use :ref:`algm-TransposeMD` instead.
- Removed the obsolete algorithm `LoadLLB`.
- Removed the obsolete algorithm `SaveISISNexus`. It is being removed before the normal comment period rather than undergoing extensive changes to accommodate the consolidation of nexus APIs in mantid.
- Removed obsolete `LoadDSpacemap` and `SaveDSpacemap` algorithms.
- - The algorithm `CentroidPeaksMD v1` was deprecated in :ref:`Release 3.9.0 <v3.9.0>` and has now been removed. Use :ref:`CentroidPeaksMD v2 <algm-CentroidPeaksMD-v2>` instead.
- The algorithm `LoadNexusMonitors v1` was deprecated in :ref:`Release 3.9.0 <v3.9.0>` and has now been removed. Use :ref:`LoadNexusMonitors v2 <algm-LoadNexusMonitors-v2>` instead.
- The LoadSNSspec algorithm was deprecated on 2017-01-30 and has now been removed.
- Removed the obselete algorithm `NexusTester`

Fit Functions
-------------

New features
############


Bugfixes
############


Deprecated
############


Removed
############



Data Handling
-------------

New features
############
- :ref:`LoadSpec <algm-LoadSpec>` has been updated to be declared as a file loader

Deprecated
############
- :ref:`LoadPreNexus <algm-LoadPreNexus>` and :ref:`LoadPreNexusMonitors <algm-LoadPreNexusMonitors>` has been deprecated. There is no replacement.

Removed
############
- Remove ``SaveToSNSHistogramNexus`` because it is unused.


Data Objects
------------

New features
############


Bugfixes
############



Python
------

New features
############
- Introduced a prototype "side-by-side" help system that includes both the legacy QtHelp-based viewer and a new Python-based Help Window using an embedded web browser (QWebEngine) to display documentation within Mantid Workbench.
- Improvements:
    - Enhances the visual appearance and usability of in-app documentation.
    - Supports richer HTML content and modern formatting, including MathJax for rendering mathematical equations.
    - Delivers a smoother and more consistent experience when navigating help and reference material.
- Key benefits:
    - Improved clarity for technical content (e.g. math and tables), more attractive and readable pages, and future potential for interactive elements in documentation.
- Makes the large offline documentation optional rather than a mandatory install, reducing installer/download size significantly.
- Improvements:
    - For users who frequently access online docs or have bandwidth constraints, this saves considerable disk space (potentially hundreds of MB).
    - Those who prefer local/offline usage can still opt to install the documentation package and continue working without internet access.
- Key benefits:
    - Greater flexibility in how Mantid is set up — you choose whether to save space or have fully locally built docs.
- Introduced a new python algorithm `RefineSingleCrystalGoniometer` that refines the UB-matrix and goniometer offsets simultaneously.
- Improvements:
    - Improves the indexing of the peaks for those cases when there is sample misorientation and `FindUBUsingIndexedPeaks` is insufficient.
- Key benefits:
    - Improved indexing of peaks in special cases.
- Exposed ``Instrument.getFilename()`` and ``Instrument.setFilename()`` to python
- Adds a clear indicator in the Help Window’s toolbar showing whether Mantid is displaying **Local Docs** or **Online Docs** documentation.
- Improvements:
    - Makes it obvious if you are using locally installed documentation or viewing updated online docs (default).
    - Helps diagnose connection or installation issues if pages are not loading as expected.
- Key benefits:
    - Immediate clarity on where help content is being retrieved from, removing guesswork.

Bugfixes
############
- :class:`ConfigService.setDataSearchDirs <mantid.kernel.ConfigServiceImpl.setDataSearchDirs>` will no longer crash when comma separated paths are used in the `datasearch.directories` setting of the `mantid.user.properties` file.
- Fixed a bug where the method :meth:`mantid.api.Run.addProperty` was ignoring the ``name`` and ``units`` parameters if the ``value`` was of type :class:`mantid.kernel.Property`. Now only if the ``name`` and ``units`` are empty will the existing values on the ``Property`` be used.


Dependencies
------------

New features
############
- Upgraded to Python 3.11, see release notes from Python `here <https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.11.html>`_. Also see Python's `migration guide <https://docs.python.org/3/whatsnew/3.11.html#porting-to-python-3-11>`_ for changes that could break scripts.

Bugfixes
############



Build Tools
-----------

Bugfixes
############
- CMake now successfully builds with ``-DUSE_SANITIZER=address``. For more details see :doc:`RunningSanitizers <mantid-dev:RunningSanitizers>`.


MantidWorkbench
---------------

See :doc:`mantidworkbench`.

:ref:`Release 6.13.0 <v6.13.0>`
