dev-docs/source/CLion.rst, before:

.. _clion-ref:

=====
CLion
=====

.. contents::
  :local:

Installing CLion
################

Please note that these instructions only work when using a Ninja generator from a Windows or Linux operating system.

You will also need to have Visual Studio installed on windows.

If you haven't installed CLion yet do that now, CLion can be installed from `here <https://jetbrains.com/clion/download/>`_.

Opening CLion
#############

The first time you build from CLion, you will most likely need to launch it from a terminal or command line to make sure you have access to all the relevant tools.

* On Linux,

  #. Open any terminal
  #. Run ``conda activate mantid-developer``
  #. Then launch CLion from this terminal with ``<CLION_INSTALL>/bin/clion.sh``


* On Windows,

  #. Using your search bar, open the ``x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2019`` command prompt
  #. Run ``conda activate mantid-developer``
  #. Then launch CLion with ``<CLION_INSTALL>/bin/clion.bat``

If you get errors about being unable to compile a 'simple test program', then doing the above should fix your issue.

Setup for a CLion Build
#######################

Follow these instructions when the CLion IDE has opened:

To set up your toolchain:

#. Navigate to ``File > Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > Toolchains``
#. Create a new ``System`` toolchain using the ``+`` icon and call it ``Default``
#. Edit the CMake field to point to your conda installed ``cmake``

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      * On Linux: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/bin/cmake``
      * On Windows: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/Library/bin/cmake.exe``

#. Edit the Build Tool field to point to your conda installed ``ninja``

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      * On Linux: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/bin/ninja``
      * On Windows: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/Library/bin/ninja.exe``

#. For the C Compiler and C++ Compiler fields,

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      * On Linux: choose ``Let CMake detect``
      * On Windows: direct them both at the same ``cl.exe`` in your Visual Studio installation, e.g. ``C:/Program Files (x86)/Microsoft Visual Studio/2019/Community/VC/Tools/MSVC/14.29.30133/bin/Hostx64/x64/cl.exe``

To set up CMake:

#. Navigate to ``File > Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > CMake``
#. Edit the Build type field by either selecting an option, or typing in a string

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      * On Linux: ``Debug``
      * On Windows: ``DebugWithRelRuntime``

#. Set your Toolchain to be the ``Default`` toolchain that you just created
#. Set your generator to be ``Ninja``
#. Edit your Cmake options to be

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - On Linux: ``--preset=linux``
      - On Windows: ``--preset=win-ninja``

#. Set the build directory to the ``build`` directory if it is not the default (you'll need to use the full path if its outside the source directory)
#. The configurations drop-down at the top should show all of the build targets. If not, the CMake project is probably not loaded. Go to ``File > Reload CMake Project``. The configurations should be populated

Building with CLion
###################

- To build all targets, navigate to ``Build > Build All in 'Debug'``. Check that the build command displayed in the Messages window is running the correct cmake executable from your conda installation.
- To build a specific target, select it in the configurations drop-down menu and click the hammer icon next to it.

If this fails, you may need to open CLion from a terminal with your conda environment activated.

It is also useful to have your terminals in CLion to run with this environment:

#. In your ``home`` directory create a file named ``.clionrc`` and open in your favourite text editor, adding these lines:

   .. code-block:: sh

      source ~/.bashrc
      source ~/mambaforge/bin/activate mantid-developer

#. Start CLion using the above steps
#. Navigate to ``File > Settings > Tools > Terminal``
#. To the end of the ``Shell path`` option, add ``--rcfile ~/.clionrc``

Debugging with CLion
####################

To debug workbench, you'll need to edit the ``workbench`` CMake Application configuration.

#. Set the executable to be the ``python`` executable in your conda installation:

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - On Linux & macOS: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/bin/python``
      - On Windows: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/python.exe``

#. Set the program arguments:

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - On Linux & macOS: ``workbench --single-process``
      - On Windows: ``workbench-script.pyw --single-process``

#. Set the working directory:

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - All OS: ``path/to/mambaforge/envs/md/bin/``

#. Set any relevant environment variables:

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - On macOS: ``PYTHONPATH=${PYTHONPATH}:/full/path/to/build/bin/``

The ``--single-process`` flag is necessary for debugging. See the :ref:`Running Workbench <RunningWorkbench>` documentation for more information.

You should now be able to set breakpoints and start debugging by clicking the bug icon.

.. include:: ./macos-opengl-version-warning.txt

Commit message:

Add optional build configuration for CLion
Provide steps to configure CLion without needing to activate the conda environment from the terminal. This helps when working on Mantid and other projects simultaneously in CLion.

Signed-off-by: Jose Borreguero <borreguero@gmail.com>

dev-docs/source/CLion.rst, after:

.. _clion-ref:

=====
CLion
=====

.. contents::
  :local:

Installing CLion
################

Please note that these instructions only work when using a Ninja generator from a Windows or Linux operating system.

You will also need to have Visual Studio installed on windows.

If you haven't installed CLion yet do that now, CLion can be installed from `here <https://jetbrains.com/clion/download/>`_.

Opening CLion
#############

The first time you build from CLion, you will most likely need to launch it from a terminal or command line to make sure you have access to all the relevant tools.

* On Linux,

  #. Open any terminal
  #. Run ``conda activate mantid-developer``
  #. Then launch CLion from this terminal with ``<CLION_INSTALL>/bin/clion.sh``


* On Windows,

  #. Using your search bar, open the ``x64 Native Tools Command Prompt for VS 2019`` command prompt
  #. Run ``conda activate mantid-developer``
  #. Then launch CLion with ``<CLION_INSTALL>/bin/clion.bat``

If you get errors about being unable to compile a 'simple test program', then doing the above should fix your issue.

Setup for a CLion Build
#######################

Follow these instructions when the CLion IDE has opened:

To set up your toolchain:

#. Navigate to ``File > Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > Toolchains``
#. Create a new ``System`` toolchain using the ``+`` icon and call it ``Default``
#. Edit the CMake field to point to your conda installed ``cmake``

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      * On Linux: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/bin/cmake``
      * On Windows: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/Library/bin/cmake.exe``

#. Edit the Build Tool field to point to your conda installed ``ninja``

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      * On Linux: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/bin/ninja``
      * On Windows: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/Library/bin/ninja.exe``

#. For the C Compiler and C++ Compiler fields,

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      * On Linux: choose ``Let CMake detect``
      * On Windows: direct them both at the same ``cl.exe`` in your Visual Studio installation, e.g. ``C:/Program Files (x86)/Microsoft Visual Studio/2019/Community/VC/Tools/MSVC/14.29.30133/bin/Hostx64/x64/cl.exe``

To set up CMake:

#. Navigate to ``File > Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > CMake``
#. Edit the Build type field by either selecting an option, or typing in a string

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      * On Linux: ``Debug``
      * On Windows: ``DebugWithRelRuntime``

#. Set your Toolchain to be the ``Default`` toolchain that you just created
#. Set your generator to be ``Ninja``
#. Edit your Cmake options to be

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - On Linux: ``--preset=linux``
      - On Windows: ``--preset=win-ninja``

#. Set the build directory to the ``build`` directory if it is not the default (you'll need to use the full path if its outside the source directory)
#. The configurations drop-down at the top should show all of the build targets. If not, the CMake project is probably not loaded. Go to ``File > Reload CMake Project``. The configurations should be populated

Additional Build Configuration
------------------------------
This (optional) additional configuration allows one to start Clion from the JetBrains Toolbox or
from a terminal without having to activate the conda environment in the terminal.
This is useful when you're working on both Mantid and other projects in CLion simultaneously.

#. Navigate to ``File > Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > CMake``
#. Under ``environment``, add new environment variable ``CONDA_PREFIX`` with value ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer``.
#. Navigate to ``File > Settings > Build, Execution, Deployment > Python Interpreter > Add Interpreter > Add Local Interpreter > Conda Environment > Use existing environment``, then select ``mantid-developer``.


Building with CLion
###################

- To build all targets, navigate to ``Build > Build All in 'Debug'``. Check that the build command displayed in the Messages window is running the correct cmake executable from your conda installation.
- To build a specific target, select it in the configurations drop-down menu and click the hammer icon next to it.

If this fails, you may need to open CLion from a terminal with your conda environment activated.

It is also useful to have your terminals in CLion to run with this environment:

#. In your ``home`` directory create a file named ``.clionrc`` and open in your favourite text editor, adding these lines:

   .. code-block:: sh

      source ~/.bashrc
      source ~/mambaforge/bin/activate mantid-developer

#. Start CLion using the above steps
#. Navigate to ``File > Settings > Tools > Terminal``
#. To the end of the ``Shell path`` option, add ``--rcfile ~/.clionrc``

Debugging with CLion
####################

To debug workbench, you'll need to edit the ``workbench`` CMake Application configuration.

#. Set the executable to be the ``python`` executable in your conda installation:

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - On Linux & macOS: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/bin/python``
      - On Windows: ``/path/to/mambaforge/envs/mantid-developer/python.exe``

#. Set the program arguments:

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - On Linux & macOS: ``workbench --single-process``
      - On Windows: ``workbench-script.pyw --single-process``

#. Set the working directory:

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - All OS: ``path/to/mambaforge/envs/md/bin/``

#. Set any relevant environment variables:

   .. hlist::
      :columns: 1

      - On macOS: ``PYTHONPATH=${PYTHONPATH}:/full/path/to/build/bin/``

The ``--single-process`` flag is necessary for debugging. See the :ref:`Running Workbench <RunningWorkbench>` documentation for more information.

You should now be able to set breakpoints and start debugging by clicking the bug icon.

.. include:: ./macos-opengl-version-warning.txt
