dev-docs/source/MantidUsedIconsTable.rst, before:

.. _MantidUsedIconsTable:

.. |copy| image:: images/LocalIcons/content-copy.png
.. |paste| image:: images/LocalIcons/content-paste.png
.. |cut| image:: images/LocalIcons/content-cut.png
.. |settings| image:: images/LocalIcons/settings.png
.. |eraser| image:: images/LocalIcons/eraser.png
.. |delete| image:: images/LocalIcons/trash-can.png
.. |error| image:: images/LocalIcons/asterisk.png
.. |plot| image:: images/LocalIcons/chart-line.png
.. |plot-multiple| image:: images/LocalIcons/chart-areaspline.png
.. |up| image:: images/LocalIcons/arrow-up.png
.. |down| image:: images/LocalIcons/arrow-down.png
.. |play| image:: images/LocalIcons/play.png
.. |stop| image:: images/LocalIcons/square.png
.. |pause| image:: images/LocalIcons/pause.png
.. |plus| image:: images/LocalIcons/plus.png
.. |close| image:: images/LocalIcons/close.png
.. |search| image:: images/LocalIcons/folder.png
.. |refresh| image:: images/LocalIcons/twitter-retweet.png
.. |home| image:: images/LocalIcons/home.png
.. |pan| image:: images/LocalIcons/arrow-all.png
.. |zoom| image:: images/LocalIcons/magnify-plus-outline.png
.. |grid| image:: images/LocalIcons/grid.png
.. |save| image:: images/LocalIcons/content-save.png
.. |transfer-to-table| image:: images/LocalIcons/file-move.png
.. |beam-centre| image:: images/LocalIcons/adjust.png
.. |diagnostic| image:: images/LocalIcons/stethoscope.png
.. |process-all| image:: images/LocalIcons/sigma.png

.. |table| image:: images/LocalIcons/table.png
.. |export-data| image:: images/LocalIcons/file-export.png
.. |add-row| image:: images/LocalIcons/table-row-plus-after.png
.. |remove-row| image:: images/LocalIcons/table-row-remove.png
.. |new-table| image:: images/LocalIcons/table-plus.png
.. |remove-table| image:: images/LocalIcons/table-remove.png
.. |expand| image:: images/LocalIcons/expand-all.png
.. |collapse| image:: images/LocalIcons/collapse-all.png

Mantid Icon Table
#################

Here is a list of all currently used icons in Mantid.
These icons are from Material Design Icons an open source
icon project by google. Best place to find new unused icons
is on the `cheatsheet. <https://cdn.materialdesignicons.com/3.6.95/>`_

General Icons
-------------

+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Use           | getIcon String             | Icon                |
+===============+============================+=====================+
| Copy          | "mdi.content-copy"         | |copy|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Paste         | "mdi.content-paste"        | |paste|             |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Cut           | "mdi.content-cut"          | |cut|               |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Settings      | "mdi.settings-outline"             | |settings|          |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Eraser        | "mdi.eraser"               | |eraser|            |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Delete        | "mdi.trash-can"            | |delete|            |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Error         | "mdi.asterisk"             | |error|             |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Plot          | "mdi.chart-line"           | |plot|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Plot Multiple | "mdi.chart-areaspline"     | |plot-multiple|     |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Up            | "mdi.arrow-up"             | |up|                |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Down          | "mdi.arrow-down"           | |down|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Play          | "mdi.play"                 | |play|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Stop          | "mdi.stop"                 | |stop|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Pause         | "mdi.pause"                | |pause|             |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Plus          | "mdi.plus"                 | |plus|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Close         | "mdi.close"                | |close|             |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Search        | "mdi.folder"               | |search|            |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Refresh       | "mdi.twitter-retweet"      | |refresh|           |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Home          | "mdi.home"                 | |home|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Pan/Move      | "mdi.arrow-all"            | |pan|               |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Zoom In       | "mdi.magnify-plus-outline" | |zoom|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Grid          | "mdi.grid"                 | |grid|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Save          | "mdi.content-save"         | |save|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Move to Table | "mdi.file-move"            | |transfer-to-table| |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Beam Centre   | "mdi.adjust"               | |beam-centre|       |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Diagnostic    | "mdi.stethoscope"          | |diagnostic|        |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Process All   | "mdi.sigma"                | |process-all|       |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+

Table Icons
-----------

+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Use          | getIcon String             | Icon           |
+==============+============================+================+
| Table        | "mdi.table"                | |table|        |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Export Data  | "mdi.file-export"          | |export-data|  |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Add Row      | "mdi.table-row-plus-after" | |add-row|      |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Remove Row   | "mdi.table-row-remove"     | |remove-row|   |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| New Table    | "mdi.table-plus"           | |new-table|    |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Remove Table | "mdi.table-remove"         | |remove-table| |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Expand All   | "mdi.expand-all"           | |expand|       |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Collapse All | "mdi.collapse-all"         | |collapse|     |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+

Commit message:

Update and explain when this files should be updated

dev-docs/source/MantidUsedIconsTable.rst, after:

.. _MantidUsedIconsTable:

.. |copy| image:: images/LocalIcons/content-copy.png
.. |paste| image:: images/LocalIcons/content-paste.png
.. |cut| image:: images/LocalIcons/content-cut.png
.. |settings| image:: images/LocalIcons/settings.png
.. |eraser| image:: images/LocalIcons/eraser.png
.. |delete| image:: images/LocalIcons/trash-can.png
.. |error| image:: images/LocalIcons/asterisk.png
.. |plot| image:: images/LocalIcons/chart-line.png
.. |plot-multiple| image:: images/LocalIcons/chart-areaspline.png
.. |up| image:: images/LocalIcons/arrow-up.png
.. |down| image:: images/LocalIcons/arrow-down.png
.. |play| image:: images/LocalIcons/play.png
.. |stop| image:: images/LocalIcons/square.png
.. |pause| image:: images/LocalIcons/pause.png
.. |plus| image:: images/LocalIcons/plus.png
.. |close| image:: images/LocalIcons/close.png
.. |search| image:: images/LocalIcons/folder.png
.. |refresh| image:: images/LocalIcons/twitter-retweet.png
.. |home| image:: images/LocalIcons/home.png
.. |pan| image:: images/LocalIcons/arrow-all.png
.. |zoom| image:: images/LocalIcons/magnify-plus-outline.png
.. |grid| image:: images/LocalIcons/grid.png
.. |save| image:: images/LocalIcons/content-save.png
.. |transfer-to-table| image:: images/LocalIcons/file-move.png
.. |beam-centre| image:: images/LocalIcons/adjust.png
.. |diagnostic| image:: images/LocalIcons/stethoscope.png
.. |process-all| image:: images/LocalIcons/sigma.png

.. |table| image:: images/LocalIcons/table.png
.. |export-data| image:: images/LocalIcons/file-export.png
.. |add-row| image:: images/LocalIcons/table-row-plus-after.png
.. |remove-row| image:: images/LocalIcons/table-row-remove.png
.. |new-table| image:: images/LocalIcons/table-plus.png
.. |remove-table| image:: images/LocalIcons/table-remove.png
.. |expand| image:: images/LocalIcons/expand-all.png
.. |collapse| image:: images/LocalIcons/collapse-all.png

Mantid Icon Table
#################

Here is a list of all currently used icons in Mantid.
These icons are from Material Design Icons (3.6.95) an open source
icon project by google. Best place to find new unused icons
is on the `cheatsheet. <https://cdn.materialdesignicons.com/3.6.95/>`_

A developer who adds a new icon to a GUI should update this list with
it's specific usage if it can be used anywhere else in the codebase.

Last Updated: 24/05/2019

General Icons
-------------

+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Use           | getIcon String             | Icon                |
+===============+============================+=====================+
| Copy          | "mdi.content-copy"         | |copy|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Paste         | "mdi.content-paste"        | |paste|             |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Cut           | "mdi.content-cut"          | |cut|               |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Settings      | "mdi.settings-outline"             | |settings|          |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Eraser        | "mdi.eraser"               | |eraser|            |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Delete        | "mdi.trash-can"            | |delete|            |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Error         | "mdi.asterisk"             | |error|             |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Plot          | "mdi.chart-line"           | |plot|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Plot Multiple | "mdi.chart-areaspline"     | |plot-multiple|     |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Up            | "mdi.arrow-up"             | |up|                |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Down          | "mdi.arrow-down"           | |down|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Play          | "mdi.play"                 | |play|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Stop          | "mdi.stop"                 | |stop|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Pause         | "mdi.pause"                | |pause|             |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Plus          | "mdi.plus"                 | |plus|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Close         | "mdi.close"                | |close|             |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Search        | "mdi.folder"               | |search|            |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Refresh       | "mdi.twitter-retweet"      | |refresh|           |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Home          | "mdi.home"                 | |home|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Pan/Move      | "mdi.arrow-all"            | |pan|               |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Zoom In       | "mdi.magnify-plus-outline" | |zoom|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Grid          | "mdi.grid"                 | |grid|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Save          | "mdi.content-save"         | |save|              |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Move to Table | "mdi.file-move"            | |transfer-to-table| |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Beam Centre   | "mdi.adjust"               | |beam-centre|       |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Diagnostic    | "mdi.stethoscope"          | |diagnostic|        |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+
| Process All   | "mdi.sigma"                | |process-all|       |
+---------------+----------------------------+---------------------+

Table Icons
-----------

+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Use          | getIcon String             | Icon           |
+==============+============================+================+
| Table        | "mdi.table"                | |table|        |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Export Data  | "mdi.file-export"          | |export-data|  |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Add Row      | "mdi.table-row-plus-after" | |add-row|      |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Remove Row   | "mdi.table-row-remove"     | |remove-row|   |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| New Table    | "mdi.table-plus"           | |new-table|    |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Remove Table | "mdi.table-remove"         | |remove-table| |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Expand All   | "mdi.expand-all"           | |expand|       |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
| Collapse All | "mdi.collapse-all"         | |collapse|     |
+--------------+----------------------------+----------------+
