dev-docs/source/ToolsOverview.rst, before:

.. _ToolsOverview:

==============
Tools Overview
==============

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   AlgorithmProfiler

.. contents:: Contents
   :local:

Creating classes: class_maker.py
--------------------------------

**To make it faster to create a new class**. This is a small python
script located in /buildconfig/. It generates the .cpp, .h and test
files for a class along with some code stubs. It can also flesh out more
methods for new Algorithms, using the "--alg" option.

::

    usage: class_maker.py [-h] [--force] [--test] [--alg] SUBPROJECT CLASSNAME
    Utility to create Mantid class files: header, source and test.
    positional arguments:
     SUBPROJECT  The subproject under Framework/; e.g. Kernel
     CLASSNAME   Name of the class to create
    optional arguments:
     -h, --help  show this help message and exit
     --force     Force overwriting existing files. Use with caution!
     --test      Create only the test file.
     --alg       Create an Algorithm stub. This adds some methods common to
                 algorithms.

Moving/Renaming classes: move_class.py
--------------------------------------

This python script is located in in /buidconfig/. It will move a class
from one subproject to another and/or rename the class. Namespaces and
cmakelists are adjusted. For details, run:

``buildconfig/move_class.py --help``

Deleting a class: delete_class.py
---------------------------------

This python script is located in in /buildconfig/. It will delete a
class from one subproject. CMakeList.txt is adjusted. For details, run:

``buildconfig/delete_class.py --help``

Profiling an algorithm
----------------------

On Linux the build can be configured to generated algorithm profiling information. See :doc:`AlgorithmProfiler <AlgorithmProfiler>` for more details.

Leak checking etc
-----------------

Linux
~~~~~

`Memcheck <http://valgrind.org/docs/manual/mc-manual.html>`__

-  Keeps track of allocs/deallocs and reports anything missing at exit.
-  Slow but thorough
-  Useful options to run with

``valgrind --tool=memcheck --leak-check=full --show-reachable=yes --num-callers=20 --track-fds=yes --track-origins=yes --freelist-vol=500000000 ``\ \ `` [args...]``

Windows
~~~~~~~

`Visual Leak Detector <https://vld.codeplex.com/releases>`__

#. Setup the additional paths as defined in the readme file
#. Adjust the configuration file, "C:\Program Files\Visual Leak
   Detector\vld.ini" to output to both File and debugger by changing the
   ``ReportTo`` to

``ReportTo = both``

#. Add #include <vld.h> to the system.h file in Kernel
#. Compile everything in debug
#. Running unit tests should now create a file memory_leak_report.txt in
   the test directory.
#. IMPORTANT remove the #include <vld.ini> before checking in.

Thread checking
---------------

`Helgrind <http://valgrind.org/docs/manual/hg-manual.html>`__ or  `drd <http://valgrind.org/docs/manual/drd-manual.html>`__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Identifies race conditions & dead-locks
-  Slow but accurate
-  A pain to get working with OpenMP. GCC must be recompiled to use a different call to create OMP threads or helgrind/drd cannot "see" the thread calls. Use this `script <https://github.com/UCSCSlang/Adversarial-Helgrind/raw/master/drd/scripts/download-and-build-gcc>`__ to recompile the same version off gcc that is onyour system. The script will need editing to change the appropriate variables.

Profiling
---------

.. _linux-1:

Linux
~~~~~

`Callgrind/KCachegrind <http://kcachegrind.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/show.cgi/KcacheGrindIndex>`__

-  KCachegrind visualizes callgrind output.
-  See :ref:`Profiling With Valgrind <ProfilingWithValgrind>` for help on
   running callgrind

`gperftools <https://github.com/gperftools/gperftools>`__

-  Takes snapshot of run and prints percentage of calls in functions

See here for a list of other tools:
http://www.pixelbeat.org/programming/profiling/

.. _windows-1:

Windows
~~~~~~~

`Very Sleepy <http://www.codersnotes.com/sleepy/>`__ (Windows):

-  Start/stop recording of program using a button
-  Not as detailed or flexible as callgrind

IWYU
----

`include what you
use <https://code.google.com/p/include-what-you-use/>`__ (iwyu) is a
clang-based tool for determining what include statements are needed in
C/C++ files. Below are instructions for getting it to run with mantid on
linux which is a filled in version of `this
bug <https://code.google.com/p/include-what-you-use/issues/detail?id=164>`__.

#. Install the software. The version available from system installs
   should be fine (e.g. yum or apt-get).
#. Get a copy of
   `iwyu_tool.py <https://code.google.com/p/include-what-you-use/source/browse/trunk/iwyu_tool.py>`__
   which is in the project's repository, but may not be installed if you
   got it from your operating system locations (e.g. yum).
#. Run ``cmake -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=TRUE``. This will
   generate an extra file, ``compile_commands.json``, in your build area
   which has instructions on compiling every file in mantid.
#. Run :literal:`iwyu_tool.py -p `pwd` 2> iwyu.log` to generate the
   report of changes redirecting into the file ``iwyu.log``. This will
   take a long time since it is going through the whole repository. If
   you want it for a single file, then supply that as an additional
   argument with full path. Only one file can be supplied at a time.
#. Run ``fix_includes < iwyu.log`` and compile the results. Depending on
   how you installed iwyu, the program may be called
   ``fix_includes.py``. If it doesn't compile, the most likely suspect
   is that iwyu included a private header. See `iwyu instructions for
   users <https://code.google.com/p/include-what-you-use/wiki/InstructionsForUsers#How_to_Run>`__
   for ways to handle this. Generally, they suggest deleting the
   offending lines.
#. Check that your build path didn't make it into source files. Since
   ``compile_commands.json`` has full paths, iwyu will put full paths in
   the include statements. This will not produce an error on your
   system, but it will on the build servers. The easiest way to check is
   to use `the silver
   searcher <https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher>`__ to check
   for your username in your source tree.
#. Enjoy your success.

**Note:** ``iwyu`` outputs to ``stderr`` and always returns a failure
status code since it generates no output. The output stream also affects
``iwyu_tool.py``

Network Related Tools
---------------------

Wireshark
~~~~~~~~~

Linux distros should have this in their repositories. For other platforms download it from https://www.wireshark.org.

Cross-platform tool for inspecting network packets. This is useful to troubleshoot many different types of
network-related problems.

Wonder Shaper
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Linux only. Install it from your distro's repository.

Wonder Shaper allows the user to limit the bandwidth of one or more network adapters. This is useful for debugging
issues when a network interface is still active but very slow. More details can be found at http://xmodulo.com/limit-network-bandwidth-linux.html.

Convert Wiki Docs to Sphinx
---------------------------

``wiki2rst`` reads in mediawiki formatted webpages and converts them to ``.rst`` files, for use 
in ``Sphinx``. The code attempts to take all images and internal links and re-create the 
documentation structure in the ``Sphinx`` format. 

Use
~~~

- Having added ``mantid`` to your Python path ``wiki2rst`` is run by:

.. code::

    python wiki2rst.py -o <output_file.rst> <url_extension>

- The ``<url_extension>`` is the part of the url after the main address (``https://www.mantidproject.org/``).
- There are several additional options:
	- ``--index_url`` change the name of the main url address
	- ``--images-dir`` set a relative location for the images directory
	- ``--ref-link`` give a reference link
	- ``--ref-link-prefix`` give a link prefix
	- ``--add_handle`` add a handle for linking to the page
	- ``--page_handle`` the page handle to use [default page name]
	- ``--add_heading`` add a heading to the page (uses the page name)

Clang-tidy
----------

Mantid has built clang-tidy support into cmake. This allows a user to detect and fix code which does not follow best practices,
such as unused parameters or not using range-based for loops.

Installing
~~~~~~~~~~

Mantid does not come packaged with clang-tidy. You can install clang-tidy `here <http://releases.llvm.org/download.html>`_.

Alternatively, for **Ubuntu** users, run ``sudo apt-get install clang-tidy`` in the command line.

Setup
~~~~~

In the cmake gui, find the ``CLANG_TIDY_EXE`` parameter. If you are a non-Linux developer, you may have to manually point to your clang-tidy install.
Configure, and check the cmake log for the message `clang-tidy found`. If the `clang-tidy not found` warning was posted instead then it has not worked.

Once you have clang-tidy, there are several relevant parameters you will want to change:

- ``ENABLE_CLANG_TIDY`` will turn on clang-tidy support.
- ``CLANG_TIDY_CHECKS`` is a semi-colon separated list of checks for clang-tidy to carry out. The full list can be seen `here <https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/checks/list.html>`_.
  This defaults to all ``modernize-`` checks.
- ``APPLY_CLANG_TIDY_FIX`` will automatically change the code whenever a check has returned a result. The behaviour of ``ENABLE_CLANG_TIDY`` without this checked is to highlight issues only.

Configure the build to check that your selected options are reflected in ``CMAKE_CXX_CLANG_TIDY``, and then generate.
When you next build, clang-tidy will perform the selected checks on the code included in the target.

*Note: There is a known issue that clang-tidy is only being applied to certain directories within* ``Framework`` *and* ``Mantidplot``.

Options
~~~~~~~

Some clang-tidy checks have optional arguments. For example, ``modernize-loop-convert``, which changes loops to range-based,
assigns a riskiness to each loop and can accept a ``MinConfidence`` argument to determine which risk levels to address.

Adding the optional arguments is clunky and will rarely be required, so it has not been directly added to Mantid's cmake setup.
To add optional arguments, add the following onto the end of ``CLANG_TIDY_CHECKS``::

    ;-config={CheckOptions: [ {key: check-to-choose-option.option-name, value: option-value} ]}

For example, to convert all loops classified as *risky* or above, we would append::

    ;-config={CheckOptions: [ {key: modernize-loop-convert.MinConfidence, value: risky} ]}

Commit message:

Add windows instructions for downloading clang-tidy

dev-docs/source/ToolsOverview.rst, after:

.. _ToolsOverview:

==============
Tools Overview
==============

.. toctree::
   :hidden:

   AlgorithmProfiler

.. contents:: Contents
   :local:

Creating classes: class_maker.py
--------------------------------

**To make it faster to create a new class**. This is a small python
script located in /buildconfig/. It generates the .cpp, .h and test
files for a class along with some code stubs. It can also flesh out more
methods for new Algorithms, using the "--alg" option.

::

    usage: class_maker.py [-h] [--force] [--test] [--alg] SUBPROJECT CLASSNAME
    Utility to create Mantid class files: header, source and test.
    positional arguments:
     SUBPROJECT  The subproject under Framework/; e.g. Kernel
     CLASSNAME   Name of the class to create
    optional arguments:
     -h, --help  show this help message and exit
     --force     Force overwriting existing files. Use with caution!
     --test      Create only the test file.
     --alg       Create an Algorithm stub. This adds some methods common to
                 algorithms.

Moving/Renaming classes: move_class.py
--------------------------------------

This python script is located in in /buidconfig/. It will move a class
from one subproject to another and/or rename the class. Namespaces and
cmakelists are adjusted. For details, run:

``buildconfig/move_class.py --help``

Deleting a class: delete_class.py
---------------------------------

This python script is located in in /buildconfig/. It will delete a
class from one subproject. CMakeList.txt is adjusted. For details, run:

``buildconfig/delete_class.py --help``

Profiling an algorithm
----------------------

On Linux the build can be configured to generated algorithm profiling information. See :doc:`AlgorithmProfiler <AlgorithmProfiler>` for more details.

Leak checking etc
-----------------

Linux
~~~~~

`Memcheck <http://valgrind.org/docs/manual/mc-manual.html>`__

-  Keeps track of allocs/deallocs and reports anything missing at exit.
-  Slow but thorough
-  Useful options to run with

``valgrind --tool=memcheck --leak-check=full --show-reachable=yes --num-callers=20 --track-fds=yes --track-origins=yes --freelist-vol=500000000 ``\ \ `` [args...]``

Windows
~~~~~~~

`Visual Leak Detector <https://vld.codeplex.com/releases>`__

#. Setup the additional paths as defined in the readme file
#. Adjust the configuration file, "C:\Program Files\Visual Leak
   Detector\vld.ini" to output to both File and debugger by changing the
   ``ReportTo`` to

``ReportTo = both``

#. Add #include <vld.h> to the system.h file in Kernel
#. Compile everything in debug
#. Running unit tests should now create a file memory_leak_report.txt in
   the test directory.
#. IMPORTANT remove the #include <vld.ini> before checking in.

Thread checking
---------------

`Helgrind <http://valgrind.org/docs/manual/hg-manual.html>`__ or  `drd <http://valgrind.org/docs/manual/drd-manual.html>`__
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

-  Identifies race conditions & dead-locks
-  Slow but accurate
-  A pain to get working with OpenMP. GCC must be recompiled to use a different call to create OMP threads or helgrind/drd cannot "see" the thread calls. Use this `script <https://github.com/UCSCSlang/Adversarial-Helgrind/raw/master/drd/scripts/download-and-build-gcc>`__ to recompile the same version off gcc that is onyour system. The script will need editing to change the appropriate variables.

Profiling
---------

.. _linux-1:

Linux
~~~~~

`Callgrind/KCachegrind <http://kcachegrind.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/show.cgi/KcacheGrindIndex>`__

-  KCachegrind visualizes callgrind output.
-  See :ref:`Profiling With Valgrind <ProfilingWithValgrind>` for help on
   running callgrind

`gperftools <https://github.com/gperftools/gperftools>`__

-  Takes snapshot of run and prints percentage of calls in functions

See here for a list of other tools:
http://www.pixelbeat.org/programming/profiling/

.. _windows-1:

Windows
~~~~~~~

`Very Sleepy <http://www.codersnotes.com/sleepy/>`__ (Windows):

-  Start/stop recording of program using a button
-  Not as detailed or flexible as callgrind

IWYU
----

`include what you
use <https://code.google.com/p/include-what-you-use/>`__ (iwyu) is a
clang-based tool for determining what include statements are needed in
C/C++ files. Below are instructions for getting it to run with mantid on
linux which is a filled in version of `this
bug <https://code.google.com/p/include-what-you-use/issues/detail?id=164>`__.

#. Install the software. The version available from system installs
   should be fine (e.g. yum or apt-get).
#. Get a copy of
   `iwyu_tool.py <https://code.google.com/p/include-what-you-use/source/browse/trunk/iwyu_tool.py>`__
   which is in the project's repository, but may not be installed if you
   got it from your operating system locations (e.g. yum).
#. Run ``cmake -DCMAKE_EXPORT_COMPILE_COMMANDS=TRUE``. This will
   generate an extra file, ``compile_commands.json``, in your build area
   which has instructions on compiling every file in mantid.
#. Run :literal:`iwyu_tool.py -p `pwd` 2> iwyu.log` to generate the
   report of changes redirecting into the file ``iwyu.log``. This will
   take a long time since it is going through the whole repository. If
   you want it for a single file, then supply that as an additional
   argument with full path. Only one file can be supplied at a time.
#. Run ``fix_includes < iwyu.log`` and compile the results. Depending on
   how you installed iwyu, the program may be called
   ``fix_includes.py``. If it doesn't compile, the most likely suspect
   is that iwyu included a private header. See `iwyu instructions for
   users <https://code.google.com/p/include-what-you-use/wiki/InstructionsForUsers#How_to_Run>`__
   for ways to handle this. Generally, they suggest deleting the
   offending lines.
#. Check that your build path didn't make it into source files. Since
   ``compile_commands.json`` has full paths, iwyu will put full paths in
   the include statements. This will not produce an error on your
   system, but it will on the build servers. The easiest way to check is
   to use `the silver
   searcher <https://github.com/ggreer/the_silver_searcher>`__ to check
   for your username in your source tree.
#. Enjoy your success.

**Note:** ``iwyu`` outputs to ``stderr`` and always returns a failure
status code since it generates no output. The output stream also affects
``iwyu_tool.py``

Network Related Tools
---------------------

Wireshark
~~~~~~~~~

Linux distros should have this in their repositories. For other platforms download it from https://www.wireshark.org.

Cross-platform tool for inspecting network packets. This is useful to troubleshoot many different types of
network-related problems.

Wonder Shaper
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Linux only. Install it from your distro's repository.

Wonder Shaper allows the user to limit the bandwidth of one or more network adapters. This is useful for debugging
issues when a network interface is still active but very slow. More details can be found at http://xmodulo.com/limit-network-bandwidth-linux.html.

Convert Wiki Docs to Sphinx
---------------------------

``wiki2rst`` reads in mediawiki formatted webpages and converts them to ``.rst`` files, for use 
in ``Sphinx``. The code attempts to take all images and internal links and re-create the 
documentation structure in the ``Sphinx`` format. 

Use
~~~

- Having added ``mantid`` to your Python path ``wiki2rst`` is run by:

.. code::

    python wiki2rst.py -o <output_file.rst> <url_extension>

- The ``<url_extension>`` is the part of the url after the main address (``https://www.mantidproject.org/``).
- There are several additional options:
	- ``--index_url`` change the name of the main url address
	- ``--images-dir`` set a relative location for the images directory
	- ``--ref-link`` give a reference link
	- ``--ref-link-prefix`` give a link prefix
	- ``--add_handle`` add a handle for linking to the page
	- ``--page_handle`` the page handle to use [default page name]
	- ``--add_heading`` add a heading to the page (uses the page name)

Clang-tidy
----------

Mantid has built clang-tidy support into cmake. This allows a user to detect and fix code which does not follow best practices,
such as unused parameters or not using range-based for loops.

Installing
~~~~~~~~~~

Mantid does not come packaged with clang-tidy, each developer must download it themselves:

- **Ubuntu**: Run ``sudo apt-get install clang-tidy`` in the command line.
- **Windows**: Download the `Visual Studio extension <https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=caphyon.ClangPowerTools>`_. Windows can operate clang-tidy from Visual Studio alone and so do not need to touch cmake.

For other operating systems, check out the clang-tidy `downloads <http://releases.llvm.org/download.html>`_.

Setup
~~~~~

In the cmake gui, find the ``CLANG_TIDY_EXE`` parameter. If you are a non-Linux developer, you may have to manually point to your clang-tidy install.
Configure, and check the cmake log for the message `clang-tidy found`. If the `clang-tidy not found` warning was posted instead then it has not worked.

Once you have clang-tidy, there are several relevant parameters you will want to change:

- ``ENABLE_CLANG_TIDY`` will turn on clang-tidy support.
- ``CLANG_TIDY_CHECKS`` is a semi-colon separated list of checks for clang-tidy to carry out. The full list can be seen `here <https://clang.llvm.org/extra/clang-tidy/checks/list.html>`_.
  This defaults to all ``modernize-`` checks.
- ``APPLY_CLANG_TIDY_FIX`` will automatically change the code whenever a check has returned a result. The behaviour of ``ENABLE_CLANG_TIDY`` without this checked is to highlight issues only.

Configure the build to check that your selected options are reflected in ``CMAKE_CXX_CLANG_TIDY``, and then generate.
When you next build, clang-tidy will perform the selected checks on the code included in the target.

*Note: There is a known issue that clang-tidy is only being applied to certain directories within* ``Framework`` *and* ``Mantidplot``.

Options
~~~~~~~

Some clang-tidy checks have optional arguments. For example, ``modernize-loop-convert``, which changes loops to range-based,
assigns a riskiness to each loop and can accept a ``MinConfidence`` argument to determine which risk levels to address.

Adding the optional arguments is clunky and will rarely be required, so it has not been directly added to Mantid's cmake setup.
To add optional arguments, add the following onto the end of ``CLANG_TIDY_CHECKS``::

    ;-config={CheckOptions: [ {key: check-to-choose-option.option-name, value: option-value} ]}

For example, to convert all loops classified as *risky* or above, we would append::

    ;-config={CheckOptions: [ {key: modernize-loop-convert.MinConfidence, value: risky} ]}
