.. _Engineering_Diffraction_2-ref:

Engineering Diffraction 2
=========================

.. contents:: Table of Contents
    :local:

Interface Overview
------------------

This custom interface will integrate several tasks related to engineering
diffraction. In its current state it provides functionality for creating
and loading calibration files, focusing ENGINX run files, and performing
single peak fitting on focused run files.

This interface is under active development.

General Options
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
RB Number
    The reference number for the output paths (usually an experiment reference
    number at ISIS). Leaving this field empty will result in no user directories
    being created, and only the general directory will be used for file storage.

Instrument
    Select the instrument (ENGINX or IMAT). Currently only ENGINX is fully
    supported.

?
    Show this documentation page.

Settings
    Provides a range of options that apply across the entire interface, currently
    providing the option to change the default output directory and force the
    recalculation of the vanadium correction files.

Close
    Close the interface.

Red Stars
    Red stars next to browse boxes and other fields indicate that the file
    could not be found. Hover over the star to see more information.

Calibration
-----------

This tab currently provides a graphical interface to create new calibrations, using the
:ref:`EnggCalibrate<algm-EnggCalibrate>` algorithm, and visualise them.
It also allows for the loading of GSAS parameter files created by the calibration process
to load a previously created calibration into the interface.

When loading an existing calibration, the fields for creating a new calibration will be
automatically filled, allowing the recreation of the workspaces and plots generated by
creating a new calibration.

The "Plot Output" check-box will plot vanadium curves and ceria peaks for new calibrations.
Four plots will be generated (for ENGINX), one of each plot for each of the detector banks.

Creating a new calibration file generates 3 GSAS instrument parameter files,
one covering all banks and separate ones for each individual bank. All 3 files are written
to the same directory:

`<CHOSEN_OUTPUT_DIRECTORY>/Calibration/`

If an RB number has been specified the files will also be saved to a user directory
in the base directory:

`<CHOSEN_OUTPUT_DIRECTORY>/User/RBNumber/Calibration/`

Cropping
^^^^^^^^

The interface also provides the ability to restrict a new calibration to one of the two banks
or to a custom list of spectra.

Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^

Vanadium Number
    The run number or file path used to correct the calibration and experiment runs.

Calibration Sample Number
    The run number for the calibration sample run (such as ceria) used to calibrate
    experiment runs.

Path
    The path to the GSAS parameter file to be loaded.

Bank/Spectra
    Select a bank to crop to or specify a custom spectra will be entered.

Custom Spectra
    A comma separated list of spectra to restrict the calibration to. Can be provided as single spectrum numbers
    or ranges using hyphens (e.g. 14-150, 405, 500-600).

Focus
-----

This tab allows for the focusing of data files, by providing a run number or selecting the files
manually using the browse button, by making use of the :ref:`EnggFocus<algm-EnggFocus>` algorithm.

In order to use the tab, a new or existing calibration must be created or loaded.

Currently, the focusing tab only supports one focusing mode:

- **Normal Focusing:**
    The user is able to select which banks they want to focus, and all the spectra from those banks will be considered.
    The output workspaces will have a suffix denoting which bank they are for.

The focused data files are saved in NeXus format to:

`Engineering_Mantid/Focus/`

If an RB number has been specified the files will also be saved to a user directory
in the base directory:

`Engineering_Mantid/User/RBNumber/Focus/`

Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^

Sample Run Number
    The run number or file path to the data file to be focused.

Fitting
-------

This tab allows for single peak fitting of focused run files.

Focused run files can be loaded from the file system into mantid from the interface, which will keep track of all the
workspaces that it has created from these files.

Parameters
^^^^^^^^^^

Focused Run Files
    A comma separated list of files to load. Selecting files from the file system using the browse button will do this
    for you.
