Indirect Bayes
==============

.. contents:: Table of Contents
  :local:

Overview
--------

.. interface:: Bayes
  :align: right
  :width: 350

Provides Bayesian analysis routines primarily for use with QENS data.

Action Buttons
--------------

?
  Opens this help page.

Run
  Runs the processing configured on the current tab.

Manage Directories
  Opens the Manage Directories dialog allowing you to change your search directories
  and default save directory and enable/disable data archive search.

ResNorm
-------

.. interface:: Bayes
  :widget: ResNorm

This tab creates a group 'normalisation' file by taking a resolution file and
fitting it to all the groups in the resolution (vanadium) data file which has
the same grouping as the sample data of interest.

The routine fits the width of the resolution file to give a 'stretch factor'
and the area provides an intensity normalisation factor.

The fitted parameters are in the group workspace with suffix *_ResNorm* with
additional suffices of *_Intensity* & *_Stretch*.

The processing on this tab is provided by the :ref:`ResNorm <algm-ResNorm>`
algorithm.

Options
~~~~~~~

Vanadium File
  Either a reduced file created using the Energy Transfer tab or an
  :math:`S(Q, \omega)` file.

Resolution File
  A resolution file created using the Calibrtion tab.

EMin & EMax
  The energy range to perform fitting within.

Plot Result
  Plots the result workspaces.

Save Result
  Saves the result in the default save directory.

Quasi
-----

.. warning:: This interface is only available on Windows

.. interface:: Bayes
  :widget: Quasi

The model that is being fitted is that of a :math:`\delta`-function (elastic component)
of amplitude :math:`A(0)` and Lorentzians of amplitude :math:`A(j)` and HWHM
:math:`W(j)` where :math:`j=1,2,3`. The whole function is then convolved with
the resolution function. The -function and Lorentzians are intrinsically
normalised to unity so that the amplitudes represent their integrated areas.

For a Lorentzian, the Fourier transform does the conversion:
:math:`1/(x^{2}+\delta^{2}) \Leftrightarrow exp[-2\pi(\delta k)]`.  If :math:`x`
is identified with energy :math:`E` and :math:`2\pi k` with :math:`t/\hbar`
where t is time then: :math:`1/[E^{2}+(\hbar / \tau)^{2}] \Leftrightarrow exp[−t
/\tau]` and :math:`\sigma` is identified with :math:`\hbar / \tau`.  The program
estimates the quasielastic components of each of the groups of spectra and
requires the resolution file and optionally the normalisation file created by
ResNorm.

For a Stretched Exponential, the choice of several Lorentzians is replaced with
a single function with the shape : :math:`\psi\beta(x) \Leftrightarrow
exp[-2\pi(\sigma k)\beta]`. This, in the energy to time FT transformation, is
:math:`\psi\beta(E) \Leftrightarrow exp[-(t/\tau)\beta]`. So :math:`\sigma` is
identified with :math:`(2\pi)\beta\hbar/\tau` .  The model that is fitted is
that of an elastic component and the stretched exponential and the program gives
the best estimate for the :math:`\beta` parameter and the width for each group
of spectra.

Options
~~~~~~~

Input
  Either a reduced file created using the Energy Transfer tab or an
  :math:`S(Q, \omega)` file.

Resolution
  A resolution file created using the Calibrtion tab.

Program
  The curve fitting program to use.

Background
  The background fitting program to use.

Elastic Peak
  If an elastic peak should be used.

Sequential Fit
  Enables multiple fitting iterations.

Fix Width
  Allows selection of a width file.

Use ResNorm
  Allows selection of a ResNorm output file or workspace to use with fitting.

EMin & EMax
  The energy range to perform fitting within.

Sample Binning
  Sample binning to use.

Resolution Binning
  Resolution binning to use.

Plot Result
  Plots the result workspaces.

Save Result
  Saves the result in the default save directory.

Stretch
-------

.. warning:: This interface is only available on Windows

.. interface:: Bayes
  :widget: Stretch

This is a variation of the stretched exponential option of Quasi. For each
spectrum a fit is performed for a grid of β and σ values. The distribution of
goodness of fit values is plotted.

Options
~~~~~~~

Sample
  Either a reduced file created using the Energy Transfer tab or an
  :math:`S(Q, \omega)` file.

Resolution
  A resolution file created using the Calibrtion tab.

Background
  The background fitting program to use.

Elastic Peak
  If an elastic peak should be used.

Sequential Fit
  Enables multiple fitting iterations.

EMin & EMax
  The energy range to perform fitting within.

Sample Binning
  Sample binning to use.

Sigma
  Value of Sigma to use.

Beta
  Value of Beta to use.

Plot Result
  Plots the result workspaces.

Save Result
  Saves the result in the default save directory.

.. categories:: Interfaces Indirect
