docs/source/api/python/mantid/api/MultipleFileProperty.rst, before:

======================
 MultipleFileProperty
======================

This is a Python binding to the C++ class
``Mantid::API::MultipleFileProperty``.

.. contents::
   :local:

Multiple file loading allows users to specify lists / ranges of files
to load (and optionally sum together) into Mantid.

This functionality is offered via the ``Filename`` property of
:ref:`algm-Load`, and so is available by calling the algorithm or by
using the LoadDialog window in the usual way.

Syntax
======

Basic
-----

The syntax for multi file loading involves the use of several
context-sensitive operators. Here is a run-down of those operators
in order of descending precedence with some simple examples:

+------------+---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
| Precedence | Name                | Usage                       | Description                                                                                | Example Input     | Example Result                       |
+============+=====================+=============================+============================================================================================+===================+======================================+
|            | Added Range         | ``<run>-<run>``             | Used to specify a range of runs that are to be loaded and then summed together             | ``INST1-4.ext``   | Load and sum runs 1, 2, 3 and 4      |
+            +---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|            | Stepped Added Range | ``<run>-<run>:<step_size>`` | Used to specify a ''stepped'' range of runs that are to be loaded and then summed together | ``INST1-5:2.ext`` | Load and sum runs 1, 3 and 5         |
+     1      +---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|            | Range               | ``<run>:<run>``             | Used to specify a range of runs to load. Cannot be summed                                  | ``INST1:4.ext``   | Load runs 1, 2, 3 and 4              |
+            +---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|            | Stepped Range       | ``<run>:<run>:<step_size>`` | Used to specify a ''stepped'' range of runs to load. Cannot be summed                      | ``INST1:5:2.ext`` | Load runs 1, 3 and 5                 |
+------------+---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|     2      | Plus                | ``<run>+<run>``             | Used to specify which runs or added ranges are to be loaded and then summed together       | ``INST1+2+3.ext`` | Load and sum runs 1, 2 and 3         |
+------------+---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|     3      | List                | ``<run>,<run>``             | Used to list runs, ranges or sums                                                          | ``INST1,2,3.ext`` | Load runs 1, 2 and 3                 |
+------------+---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+

Optional Info
-------------

Some information relating to the files can be left out, and the
algorithm will attempt to fill in the details:

* **Directory** - Note that in the examples table above, the directory
  of the files have not been provided.  In cases such as this,
  standard Mantid behaviour is observed and the files will be loaded
  as long as they exist in the folders specified in your `user
  directories <https://www.mantidproject.org/ManageUserDirectories>`_
  list.
* **Instrument** - If the instrument is not specified then runs from
  your chosen default instrument will be loaded.
* **File Extension** - If the file extension is not specified, then
  Mantid will look for runs amongst the files with the standard
  extensions (``.raw``, ``.nxs``, etc).  **Note:** Since Load does not
  currently support multiple loaders at the same time (see
  :ref:`MultipleFileProperty_Limitations`) if you specify multiple runs without an extension,
  then Mantid will use the first resolved extension for the remaining
  files.  If some files have a specified extension but others don't,
  then the first extension that has been specified will be used for
  all files without a given extension.
* **Zero Padding** - There is some leeway regarding the number of
  zeroes expected in the run numbers for each instrument.  If you are
  trying to load the file ``INST000001.ext``, then ``INST1.ext`` is an
  acceptable input.

Advanced
--------

The basic syntax outlined above can be combined in a variety of ways:

.. code:: python

    # Loads the Raw files 1, 2, 3, and 4 for TOSCA, but sums together runs 3 and 4.
    Load(Filename='TSC1,2,3+4.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

    # Loads the Raw files 1, 2 and 3 for TOSCA and 4, 5 and 6 for IRIS.
    # The IRIS runs are added together.
    Load(Filename='TSC1:3.raw,IRS4-6.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

    # For TOSCA, adds together run 1 (found in c:/files/) and run 2 (found in c:/store/).
    Load(Filename='c:/files/TSC1.raw+c:/store/TSC2.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

    # For TOSCA, adds together runs 1, 4, 5 and 6.
    Load(Filename='TSC1+4-5.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

    # For IRIS, adds together runs 1, 2, 3, 7, 8 and 9.
    Load(Filename='IRS1-3+7-9.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

Load Dialog
===========

When you load a range of files from the Load Dialog and then reopen
the dialog, the files that were loaded previously will now appear in a
comma and plus separated list of fully resolved filenames.

.. _MultipleFileProperty_Limitations:

Limitations
===========

* Currently, Load can only handle multiple files using a single loader
  at a time.  For example, loading a NeXuS file and a Raw file at the
  same time is not possible.
* It is not possible to plus together Ranges, or Stepped Ranges.
  (Added Ranges and Stepped Added Ranges may be plussed however.)
* Files that are loaded along with other files will end up with the
  same algorithm history.  Generating a Python script for any of the
  workspaces, and then rerunning it will result in *all* the
  workspaces being loaded.
* The syntax for the different kind of ranges can only be used between
  run numbers, and **not** between fully or partially resolved files.
  For example, ``TSC1.raw-TSC3.raw`` is not allowed; use
  ``TSC1-3.raw`` instead.
* For the ILL data, since the file names (numors) do not contain
  instrument prefixes, multiple file loading will work only if the
  default facility and instrument are set correspondingly from the
  `first time setup page
  <http://www.mantidproject.org/MBC_Getting_set_up#MantidPlot_First-Time_Setup>`_.


Detailed API Documentation
==========================

*bases:* :py:obj:`mantid.api.VectorVectorStringPropertyWithValue`

.. module:`mantid.api`

.. autoclass:: mantid.api.MultipleFileProperty
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :inherited-members:

.. categories:: Concepts

Commit message:

Add support for step size in IntArrayProperty
This appears to be a common use case of `IntArrayProperty` that is often
handled by using a string array property and parsing it manually.

docs/source/api/python/mantid/api/MultipleFileProperty.rst, after:

======================
 MultipleFileProperty
======================

This is a Python binding to the C++ class
``Mantid::API::MultipleFileProperty``.

.. contents::
   :local:

Multiple file loading allows users to specify lists / ranges of files
to load (and optionally sum together) into Mantid.

This functionality is offered via the ``Filename`` property of
:ref:`algm-Load`, and so is available by calling the algorithm or by
using the LoadDialog window in the usual way. :class:`~mantid.kernel.IntArrayProperty` accepts similar syntax for specifying ranges.

Syntax
======

Basic
-----

The syntax for multi file loading involves the use of several
context-sensitive operators. Here is a run-down of those operators
in order of descending precedence with some simple examples:

+------------+---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
| Precedence | Name                | Usage                       | Description                                                                                | Example Input     | Example Result                       |
+============+=====================+=============================+============================================================================================+===================+======================================+
|            | Added Range         | ``<run>-<run>``             | Used to specify a range of runs that are to be loaded and then summed together             | ``INST1-4.ext``   | Load and sum runs 1, 2, 3 and 4      |
+            +---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|            | Stepped Added Range | ``<run>-<run>:<step_size>`` | Used to specify a ''stepped'' range of runs that are to be loaded and then summed together | ``INST1-5:2.ext`` | Load and sum runs 1, 3 and 5         |
+     1      +---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|            | Range               | ``<run>:<run>``             | Used to specify a range of runs to load. Cannot be summed                                  | ``INST1:4.ext``   | Load runs 1, 2, 3 and 4              |
+            +---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|            | Stepped Range       | ``<run>:<run>:<step_size>`` | Used to specify a ''stepped'' range of runs to load. Cannot be summed                      | ``INST1:5:2.ext`` | Load runs 1, 3 and 5                 |
+------------+---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|     2      | Plus                | ``<run>+<run>``             | Used to specify which runs or added ranges are to be loaded and then summed together       | ``INST1+2+3.ext`` | Load and sum runs 1, 2 and 3         |
+------------+---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+
|     3      | List                | ``<run>,<run>``             | Used to list runs, ranges or sums                                                          | ``INST1,2,3.ext`` | Load runs 1, 2 and 3                 |
+------------+---------------------+-----------------------------+--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------+--------------------------------------+

Optional Info
-------------

Some information relating to the files can be left out, and the
algorithm will attempt to fill in the details:

* **Directory** - Note that in the examples table above, the directory
  of the files have not been provided.  In cases such as this,
  standard Mantid behaviour is observed and the files will be loaded
  as long as they exist in the folders specified in your `user
  directories <https://www.mantidproject.org/ManageUserDirectories>`_
  list.
* **Instrument** - If the instrument is not specified then runs from
  your chosen default instrument will be loaded.
* **File Extension** - If the file extension is not specified, then
  Mantid will look for runs amongst the files with the standard
  extensions (``.raw``, ``.nxs``, etc).  **Note:** Since Load does not
  currently support multiple loaders at the same time (see
  :ref:`MultipleFileProperty_Limitations`) if you specify multiple runs without an extension,
  then Mantid will use the first resolved extension for the remaining
  files.  If some files have a specified extension but others don't,
  then the first extension that has been specified will be used for
  all files without a given extension.
* **Zero Padding** - There is some leeway regarding the number of
  zeroes expected in the run numbers for each instrument.  If you are
  trying to load the file ``INST000001.ext``, then ``INST1.ext`` is an
  acceptable input.

Advanced
--------

The basic syntax outlined above can be combined in a variety of ways:

.. code:: python

    # Loads the Raw files 1, 2, 3, and 4 for TOSCA, but sums together runs 3 and 4.
    Load(Filename='TSC1,2,3+4.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

    # Loads the Raw files 1, 2 and 3 for TOSCA and 4, 5 and 6 for IRIS.
    # The IRIS runs are added together.
    Load(Filename='TSC1:3.raw,IRS4-6.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

    # For TOSCA, adds together run 1 (found in c:/files/) and run 2 (found in c:/store/).
    Load(Filename='c:/files/TSC1.raw+c:/store/TSC2.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

    # For TOSCA, adds together runs 1, 4, 5 and 6.
    Load(Filename='TSC1+4-5.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

    # For IRIS, adds together runs 1, 2, 3, 7, 8 and 9.
    Load(Filename='IRS1-3+7-9.raw', OutputWorkspace='Files')

Load Dialog
===========

When you load a range of files from the Load Dialog and then reopen
the dialog, the files that were loaded previously will now appear in a
comma and plus separated list of fully resolved filenames.

.. _MultipleFileProperty_Limitations:

Limitations
===========

* Currently, Load can only handle multiple files using a single loader
  at a time.  For example, loading a NeXuS file and a Raw file at the
  same time is not possible.
* It is not possible to plus together Ranges, or Stepped Ranges.
  (Added Ranges and Stepped Added Ranges may be plussed however.)
* Files that are loaded along with other files will end up with the
  same algorithm history.  Generating a Python script for any of the
  workspaces, and then rerunning it will result in *all* the
  workspaces being loaded.
* The syntax for the different kind of ranges can only be used between
  run numbers, and **not** between fully or partially resolved files.
  For example, ``TSC1.raw-TSC3.raw`` is not allowed; use
  ``TSC1-3.raw`` instead.
* For the ILL data, since the file names (numors) do not contain
  instrument prefixes, multiple file loading will work only if the
  default facility and instrument are set correspondingly from the
  `first time setup page
  <http://www.mantidproject.org/MBC_Getting_set_up#MantidPlot_First-Time_Setup>`_.


Detailed API Documentation
==========================

*bases:* :py:obj:`mantid.api.VectorVectorStringPropertyWithValue`

.. module:`mantid.api`

.. autoclass:: mantid.api.MultipleFileProperty
    :members:
    :undoc-members:
    :inherited-members:

.. categories:: Concepts
