Code/Mantid/docs/source/algorithms/IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace-v1.rst, before:


.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. alias::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

Provides limited integration of a :ref:`MDHistoWorkspace <MDHistoWorkspace>` in n-dimensions. Integration is always axis-aligned. Dimensions can only be integrated out, but no finer rebinning is permitted. Dimensions that do not require further rebinning will be left intact provided that the the binning parameters for those dimensions are not specified. For dimensions that are integrated, limits should be provided to give the range of the data to keep.

The *P1Bin* corresponds to the first dimension of the MDHistoWorkspace, *P2Bin* to the second and so on. *P1Bin=[-1, 1]* indicates that we will integrate this dimension between -1 and 1. *P1Bins=[]* indicates that the shape of this dimension should be unchanged from the input. *P1Bins=[-1,0,1]* is a special case, the zero indicates that the same bin width as the input dimension would be used, but the minimum and maximum will also be used to crop the dimension. In this latter form, the limits may be expanded to ensure that there is no partial bins in the non-integrated dimension (see warning messages).

.. figure:: /images/PreIntegrateMD.png
   :alt: PreIntegrateMD.png
   :width: 400px
   :align: center
   
   Integration Input. 3D.
   
.. figure:: /images/IntegrateMD.png
   :alt: IntegrateMD.png
   :width: 400px
   :align: center
   
   Integration Output. 2nd and 3rd dimensions integrated out. 
   

Usage
-----

**Example - IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace simple cut**

.. testcode:: IntegrateMDHistoWorkspaceExampleSimpleCut

   mdws = CreateMDWorkspace(Dimensions=3, Extents=[-10,10,-10,10,-10,10], Names='A,B,C',Units='U,U,U')
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,-5,0,0,1])
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,0,0,0,1])
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,5,0,0,1])
   #Histogram to give 3 unintegrated dimensions
   high_d_cut =CutMD(InputWorkspace=mdws, P1Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], P2Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], P3Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], NoPix=True)
   #Integrate out 2 dimensions
   low_d_cut =IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace(InputWorkspace=high_d_cut, P1Bin=[], P2Bin=[-2,2], P3Bin=[-5,5])

   non_integrated_dims = low_d_cut.getNonIntegratedDimensions()
   print 'Number of non integrated dimensions after integration are %i'  % len(non_integrated_dims)
   for dim in non_integrated_dims:
       print 'Non integrated dimension is %s' % dim.getName()
       print 'Limits are from %0.2f to %0.2f' % (dim.getMinimum(), dim.getMaximum())

Output:

.. testoutput:: IntegrateMDHistoWorkspaceExampleSimpleCut

  Number of non integrated dimensions after integration are 1
  Non integrated dimension is ['zeta', 0, 0]
  Limits are from -10.00 to 10.00

**Example - IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace line cut**

Similar to the simple cut in the previous example, but for the non-integrated dimension limits may be provided and the step size is copied across from the input dimension.
maximum and minimum limits may need to be adjusted to ensure no partial binning in the non-integrated dimension.

.. testcode:: IntegrateMDHistoWorkspaceExampleLineCut

   mdws = CreateMDWorkspace(Dimensions=3, Extents=[-10,10,-10,10,-10,10], Names='A,B,C',Units='U,U,U')
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,-5,0,0,1])
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,0,0,0,1])
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,5,0,0,1])
   #Histogram to give 3 unintegrated dimensions
   high_d_cut =CutMD(InputWorkspace=mdws, P1Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], P2Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], P3Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], NoPix=True)
   #Integrate out 2 dimensions
   copy_key = 0
         
   low_d_cut=IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace(InputWorkspace=high_d_cut,P1Bin=[-9.48,copy_key,9.01], P2Bin=[-2,2], P3Bin=[-5,5])

   dim = high_d_cut.getDimension(0)
   print 'Input bin width is %0.2f' % float((dim.getMaximum() - dim.getMinimum())/dim.getNBins())

   non_integrated_dims = low_d_cut.getNonIntegratedDimensions()
   print 'Number of non integrated dimensions after integration are %i'  % len(non_integrated_dims)
   for dim in non_integrated_dims:
       print 'Non integrated dimension is %s' % dim.getName()
       print 'Limits are from %0.2f to %0.2f' % (dim.getMinimum(), dim.getMaximum())
       print 'Output bin width is %0.2f' % float((dim.getMaximum() - dim.getMinimum() )/dim.getNBins())  

Output:

.. testoutput:: IntegrateMDHistoWorkspaceExampleLineCut 

  Input bin width is 0.10
  Number of non integrated dimensions after integration are 1
  Non integrated dimension is ['zeta', 0, 0]
  Limits are from -9.50 to 9.10
  Output bin width is 0.10
  
.. categories::

Commit message:

refs #11637. n_events weights
Add unit test for this. Also updated documentation

Code/Mantid/docs/source/algorithms/IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace-v1.rst, after:


.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. alias::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

Provides limited integration of a :ref:`MDHistoWorkspace <MDHistoWorkspace>` in n-dimensions. Integration is always axis-aligned. Dimensions can only be integrated out, but no finer rebinning is permitted. Dimensions that do not require further rebinning will be left intact provided that the the binning parameters for those dimensions are not specified. For dimensions that are integrated, limits should be provided to give the range of the data to keep.

Binning
~~~~~~~

The *P1Bin* corresponds to the first dimension of the MDHistoWorkspace, *P2Bin* to the second and so on. *P1Bin=[-1, 1]* indicates that we will integrate this dimension between -1 and 1. *P1Bins=[]* indicates that the shape of this dimension should be unchanged from the input. *P1Bins=[-1,0,1]* is a special case, the zero indicates that the same bin width as the input dimension would be used, but the minimum and maximum will also be used to crop the dimension. In this latter form, the limits may be expanded to ensure that there is no partial bins in the non-integrated dimension (see warning messages).

Weights 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The algorithm works by creating the *OutputWorkspace* in the correct shape. Each bin in the OutputWorkspace is treated in turn. For each bin in the OutputWorkspace, we find those bins in the *InputWorkspace* that overlap and therefore could contribute to the OutputBin. For any contributing bin, we calculate the fraction overlap and treat this a weighting factor. For each contributing bin *Signal*, and *:math:`Error^{2}`*, and *Number of Events* values are extracted and multiplied by the  weight. These values are summed for all contributing input bins before being assigned to the corresponding output bin. For plotting the *OutputWorkspace*, it is important to select the Number of Events normalization option to correctly account for the weights.

.. figure:: /images/PreIntegrateMD.png
   :alt: PreIntegrateMD.png
   :width: 400px
   :align: center
   
   Integration Input. 3D.
   
.. figure:: /images/IntegrateMD.png
   :alt: IntegrateMD.png
   :width: 400px
   :align: center
   
   Integration Output. 2nd and 3rd dimensions integrated out. 
   

Usage
-----

**Example - IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace simple cut**

.. testcode:: IntegrateMDHistoWorkspaceExampleSimpleCut

   mdws = CreateMDWorkspace(Dimensions=3, Extents=[-10,10,-10,10,-10,10], Names='A,B,C',Units='U,U,U')
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,-5,0,0,1])
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,0,0,0,1])
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,5,0,0,1])
   #Histogram to give 3 unintegrated dimensions
   high_d_cut =CutMD(InputWorkspace=mdws, P1Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], P2Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], P3Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], NoPix=True)
   #Integrate out 2 dimensions
   low_d_cut =IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace(InputWorkspace=high_d_cut, P1Bin=[], P2Bin=[-2,2], P3Bin=[-5,5])

   non_integrated_dims = low_d_cut.getNonIntegratedDimensions()
   print 'Number of non integrated dimensions after integration are %i'  % len(non_integrated_dims)
   for dim in non_integrated_dims:
       print 'Non integrated dimension is %s' % dim.getName()
       print 'Limits are from %0.2f to %0.2f' % (dim.getMinimum(), dim.getMaximum())

Output:

.. testoutput:: IntegrateMDHistoWorkspaceExampleSimpleCut

  Number of non integrated dimensions after integration are 1
  Non integrated dimension is ['zeta', 0, 0]
  Limits are from -10.00 to 10.00

**Example - IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace line cut**

Similar to the simple cut in the previous example, but for the non-integrated dimension limits may be provided and the step size is copied across from the input dimension.
maximum and minimum limits may need to be adjusted to ensure no partial binning in the non-integrated dimension.

.. testcode:: IntegrateMDHistoWorkspaceExampleLineCut

   mdws = CreateMDWorkspace(Dimensions=3, Extents=[-10,10,-10,10,-10,10], Names='A,B,C',Units='U,U,U')
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,-5,0,0,1])
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,0,0,0,1])
   FakeMDEventData(InputWorkspace=mdws, PeakParams=[100000,5,0,0,1])
   #Histogram to give 3 unintegrated dimensions
   high_d_cut =CutMD(InputWorkspace=mdws, P1Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], P2Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], P3Bin=[-10, 0.1, 10], NoPix=True)
   #Integrate out 2 dimensions
   copy_key = 0
         
   low_d_cut=IntegrateMDHistoWorkspace(InputWorkspace=high_d_cut,P1Bin=[-9.48,copy_key,9.01], P2Bin=[-2,2], P3Bin=[-5,5])

   dim = high_d_cut.getDimension(0)
   print 'Input bin width is %0.2f' % float((dim.getMaximum() - dim.getMinimum())/dim.getNBins())

   non_integrated_dims = low_d_cut.getNonIntegratedDimensions()
   print 'Number of non integrated dimensions after integration are %i'  % len(non_integrated_dims)
   for dim in non_integrated_dims:
       print 'Non integrated dimension is %s' % dim.getName()
       print 'Limits are from %0.2f to %0.2f' % (dim.getMinimum(), dim.getMaximum())
       print 'Output bin width is %0.2f' % float((dim.getMaximum() - dim.getMinimum() )/dim.getNBins())  

Output:

.. testoutput:: IntegrateMDHistoWorkspaceExampleLineCut 

  Input bin width is 0.10
  Number of non integrated dimensions after integration are 1
  Non integrated dimension is ['zeta', 0, 0]
  Limits are from -9.50 to 9.10
  Output bin width is 0.10
  
.. categories::
