========================
Mantid Workbench Changes
========================

.. contents:: Table of Contents
   :local:

New Features
############

- Added a colorbar scale option to the workbench plot settings. This allows the user to choose between a linear (default) or logarithmic scale.
- Added a show legend checkbox to the workbench plot settings. This allows users to choose whether to display the legend on graphs by default.
- Added a ``Log`` colorbar scale option to the Sliceviewer. This differs from the existing ``Symlog`` option as it prohibits negative values.
- Added a Dx data tab on the data window when a workspace has Dx data.
- Added QLineEdit to SampleLogs widget to allow filtering its entries

Improvements
############

- Enable workbench to plot 1D spectrum from an IMDHistoWorkspace whose non-integrated dimension is equal to 1 but not to launch slice viewer.
- Removed dialogs for the Load and Fit algorithms as the dialogs were previously deprecated
- Migrate MantidPlot's Step Scan interface to workbench.
- Expose :ref:`Instrument View <instrumentviewer>` control to Python.
- Enable workbench to plot 1D spectrum (plot, overplot, plot_with_error, overplot_with_error) from an IMDHistoWorkspace whose non-integrated dimension is equal to 1 but not to launch slice viewer.
- Enabled the plotting of individual functions in the Workbench fit browser. This replicates a feature that was in MantidPlot.
  Plotting of each function can be performed by right clicking on the function within the browser and selecting plot.
- Add the possibility to copy and paste shapes in the instrument viewer using Ctrl + C and Ctrl + V.
- Improved spectra selection within the sliceviewer, which should ensure that high counting spectra are shown immediately when the sliceviewer is opened.
- Powder diffraction support (instruments D2B and D20) has been added to DrILL interface. See
- Improved the clarity of error messages generated by algorithms when access to a file is denied due to insufficient user permissions.
- Dynamic binning has been enabled for MDHistoWorkspaces with an attached original in the SliceViewer. Manual rebinning options are now also shown.
- Vertical and horizontal markers on a plot should no longer appear in front of the legend.
- Plots containing axvline's and axhline's can be saved and are reproduced when loading a project that contains them.
- Wireframe plots no longer spill over the axes when their limits are reduced.
- In the instrument widget, the integration scroll bar can be moved, widened and shrunk using the arrow keys.
- The matplotlib `zoom` selection box is now more visible on colorfill and sliceviewer plots.
- Add an autoscale checkbox to plot config dialog.
- Add a Python function to replace the workspace being shown by an instrument window.

Bugfixes
########

- Only display slice viewer widget for MDEventWorkspaces with 2 or more dimensions.
- Fix Workbench crashes upon deleting rows or columns in a TableWorkspace.
- Fix crash on second call to ManageUserDirectories after pressing Esc to close it.
- A bug in plot config where changing an axes title in the axis tab did not change the title in the curves tab.
- Fixed a Workbench crash when attempting to show the data in a ragged workspace.
- Show spectrum numbers instead of workspace index in plotBin
- Fixed a bug which would cause unrealistic errorbars on the fit calc curve.
- Fix sort order of peaks in the peaks overlay on SliceViewer.
- The colorfill plot on ragged workspaces will have the correct horizontal extent.
- Fix replot of colorfill image after a workspace is replaced.

:ref:`Release 6.0.0 <v6.0.0>`
