- This release has removed all reliance on the `NeXus API <https://github.com/nexusformat/code>`_ .  Instead the ``File`` class was rewritten to use direct calls to the `HDF5 API <https://github.com/HDFGroup/hdf5/tree/4f1c3b6a4c7f2af6b617aede8dfb0ff1a6c58850>`_. In some places the C++ API (``H5Cpp``) is used for compatibility with other Mantid packages that also use the C++ API, but otherwise the low-level C API (``hdf5``) is used.  This decision was made because:

  1. The C++ API is unsupported by the HDF Group (in private correspondence they suggested we use a 3rd party API).
  2. The C++ API is not properly documented.
  3. The C++ API does not have access to every possible feature or option that might be needed.
  4. The C API is fully documented.
  5. The C API is regularly maintained.
  6. The C API is the "base" API for HDF5, and so automatically supports all available features natively.

  Throughout this release cycle, we have been methodically replacing and modernizing the ``Nexus`` abstraction layer, one piece of functionality at a time.  This has included modern objects such as vectors and strings in place of arrays and C-strings, fixing many instances that apparently led to memory leaks due to unclosed objects, and simplifying the logic inside many of the methods for saving or loading data.

  This should not imapct the observed behavior, except that memory should be more cleanly freed in Workbench, and loading or saving operations might run slightly faster.

  Those interested in the details of the changes can see them in the (developer centric)
  `github issue <https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/issues/38332>`_ or by following the `Nexus tag <https://github.com/mantidproject/mantid/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+label%3ANexus>`_.
