docs/source/algorithms/Abins-v1.rst, before:

.. algorithm::

Credits
-------

Author:
    Krzysztof Dymkowski, Adam Jackson

Contributors:
   Sanghamitra Mukhopadhyay, Elliot Oram, Leonardo Bernasconi, Leandro Liborio

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

Abins is a plugin for Mantid which allows scientists to compare experimental and theoretical inelastic neutron
scattering spectra (INS).

Abins requires a file containing ab-initio phonon data to perform INS analysis.
Several formats are supported for phonon modes containing frequency and displacement data at given q-points: CASTEP (.phonon), CRYSTAL (.out), GAUSSIAN (.log), DMOL3 (.outmol) or VASP (.xml).
For VASP XML inputs, it is also permitted to use a "selective dynamics" in which some atoms are frozen.
In this case, data is only available for the moving atoms and contributions from the other atoms are omitted from the calculated spectrum.
This may be a suitable model for systems where the frozen atoms form a rigid substrate (e.g. a noble metal surface) for an adsorbed molecule of lightweight atoms.
It is not recommended where there is significant vibrational coupling between frozen and moving atoms, or where substrate modes would occupy a similar frequency range to the adsorbate.

Alternatively, force-constants data can be provided and a fine q-point mesh will be sampled automatically.
In this case the supported formats are CASTEP (.castep_bin generated with ``phonon_write_force_constants = True``)
and Phonopy (*phonopy.yaml* file generated with ``INCLUDE_ALL = .TRUE.``)
It is also permitted to use a phonopy YAML file which does not contain the force constants, if force constants are stored in a ``FORCE_CONSTANTS`` or ``force_constants.hdf5`` file in the same directory. This is less convenient but may result in significantly faster loading if the force constant matrix is large.

The user may also provide an experimental file with measured dynamical structure factor S in order to directly
compare theoretical and experimental spectra.
Abins produces one dimensional INS spectrum that can be compared against TOSCA, IN1-LAGRANGE and similar instruments;
a semi-empirical powder averaging model accounts for q- and energy-dependent intensity behaviour in this system.
The user-input temperature value is included in a Debye-Waller term, recreating the intensity fall-off with increasing
wavelength.
More information about the implemented working equations can be found :ref:`here <DynamicalStructureFactorFromAbInitio>`.

After successful analysis a user obtains a Mantid Workspace Group which stores theoretical spectra (and,
optionally, experimental data).
Currently a user can produce theoretical spectra for given atoms (e.g. 'atom_1', the first atom listed in the input
data) or types of atom (for example for benzene two element symbols: C, H) and for each quantum event (up to tenth
order).
Total theoretical spectra can also be generated, summing over all considered quantum events for that atom or element.
The user can also produce a total spectrum for the whole considered system.
The dynamical structure factor S is calculated for all atoms in the system and results are cached, so if no settings
have been changed then subsequent runs of Abins can quickly create more Mantid Workspaces without re-calculating any
spectra.

Abins is in constant development and suggestions for improvements are very welcome. For any such contributions please
contact Dr. Sanghamitra Mukhopadhyay.
If you are developing or modifying Abins, see the :ref:`AbinsImplementation` notes which outline some of the key conventions, practices and pitfalls.

If Abins is used as part of your data analysis routines, please cite the relevant reference [1]_.


Usage
-----

.. include:: ../usagedata-note.txt

**Example - loading CASTEP phonon data:**

.. testcode:: AbinsCastepSimple

    benzene_wrk = Abins(AbInitioProgram="CASTEP", VibrationalOrPhononFile="benzene.phonon",
                        QuantumOrderEventsNumber="1")


    for name in benzene_wrk.getNames():
        print(name)

Output:

.. testoutput:: AbinsCastepSimple

    benzene_wrk_C_total
    benzene_wrk_C
    benzene_wrk_H_total
    benzene_wrk_H

.. testcleanup:: AbinsCastepSimple

    import os
    os.remove("benzene.hdf5")

**Example - loading CRYSTAL phonon data:**

.. testcode:: AbinsCrystalSimple

    wrk=Abins(AbInitioProgram="CRYSTAL", VibrationalOrPhononFile="b3lyp.out", QuantumOrderEventsNumber="1")

    for name in wrk.getNames():
        print(name)

Output:

.. testoutput:: AbinsCrystalSimple

    wrk_C_total
    wrk_C
    wrk_H_total
    wrk_H
    wrk_N_total
    wrk_N
    wrk_Na_total
    wrk_Na
    wrk_O_total
    wrk_O

.. testcleanup:: AbinsCrystalSimple

    import os
    os.remove("b3lyp.hdf5")

**Example - calling AbINS with more arguments:**

.. testcode:: AbinsexplicitParameters

    wrk_verbose=Abins(AbInitioProgram="CASTEP", VibrationalOrPhononFile="benzene.phonon",
                      ExperimentalFile="benzene_experimental.dat",
                      TemperatureInKelvin=10, BinWidthInWavenumber=1.0, SampleForm="Powder", Instrument="TOSCA",
                      Atoms="H, atom1, atom2", SumContributions=True, QuantumOrderEventsNumber="1", ScaleByCrossSection="Incoherent")

    for name in wrk_verbose.getNames():
        print(name)

Output:

.. testoutput:: AbinsexplicitParameters

    experimental_wrk
    wrk_verbose_total
    wrk_verbose_H_total
    wrk_verbose_H
    wrk_verbose_atom_1_total
    wrk_verbose_atom_1
    wrk_verbose_atom_2_total
    wrk_verbose_atom_2

.. testcleanup:: AbinsexplicitParameters

    import os
    os.remove("benzene.hdf5")

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::
  :cpp: None
  :h: None


References
----------

.. [1] K. Dymkowski, S. F. Parker, F. Fernandez-Alonso and S. Mukhopadhyay,  “AbINS: The modern software for INS interpretation” , Physica B, doi:10.1016/j.physb.2018.02.034 (2018).

Commit message:

Rework Abins docs: input data formats info split out to another page (#38588)
* Rework Abins docs: input data formats info split out to another page

* Update changelog

* Remove spurious "Title" from table RST

* Fix AbinsDataFormats table header; drop spaces from label

Even without spaces in the label, I am having trouble getting the new
file to appear in the concepts index.

* Add concepts category to new docs file; add local contents

This category seems to be required for the new page to show up in
concepts index.

Also add a little contents section to the top of the file.

docs/source/algorithms/Abins-v1.rst, after:

.. algorithm::

Credits
-------

Author:
    Adam Jackson, Krzysztof Dymkowski

Contributors:
   Sanghamitra Mukhopadhyay, Elliot Oram, Leonardo Bernasconi, Leandro Liborio

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

Abins is a plugin for Mantid which allows scientists to compare experimental and theoretical inelastic neutron
scattering spectra (INS).

Abins requires data from existing lattice dynamics calculations to determine the phonon mode frequencies and displacements. These are used to compute INS intensities; higher-order phonons may be approximated as combinations of fundamental modes.
Several file formats are supported for frequency and displacement data at given :math:`\mathbf{q}`-points. Alternatively, force-constants data can be provided and a fine :math:`\mathbf{q}`-point mesh will be sampled automatically.
Supported codes include CASTEP (.phonon), CRYSTAL (.out), DMOL3 (.outmol), GAUSSIAN (.log), PHONOPY (.yaml), VASP (.xml) as well as some pre-processed JSON (.json) formats. For more information about the files, features and quirks of these codes see :ref:`AbinsDataFormats`.

The user may also provide an experimental file with measured dynamical structure factor S in order to directly
compare theoretical and experimental spectra.
Abins produces one dimensional INS spectrum that can be compared against TOSCA, IN1-LAGRANGE and similar instruments;
a semi-empirical powder averaging model accounts for q- and energy-dependent intensity behaviour in this system.
The user-input temperature value is included in a Debye-Waller term, recreating the intensity fall-off with increasing
wavelength.
More information about the implemented working equations can be found :ref:`here <DynamicalStructureFactorFromAbInitio>`.

After successful analysis a user obtains a Mantid Workspace Group which stores theoretical spectra (and,
optionally, experimental data).
Currently a user can produce theoretical spectra for given atoms (e.g. 'atom_1', the first atom listed in the input
data) or types of atom (for example for benzene two element symbols: C, H) and for each quantum event (up to tenth
order).
Total theoretical spectra can also be generated, summing over all considered quantum events for that atom or element.
The user can also produce a total spectrum for the whole considered system.
The dynamical structure factor S is calculated for all atoms in the system and results are cached, so if no settings
have been changed then subsequent runs of Abins can quickly create more Mantid Workspaces without re-calculating any
spectra.

Abins is in constant development and suggestions for improvements are very welcome. For any such contributions please
contact Dr. Sanghamitra Mukhopadhyay.
If you are developing or modifying Abins, see the :ref:`AbinsImplementation` notes which outline some of the key conventions, practices and pitfalls.

If Abins is used as part of your data analysis routines, please cite the relevant reference [1]_.


Usage
-----

.. include:: ../usagedata-note.txt

**Example - loading CASTEP phonon data:**

.. testcode:: AbinsCastepSimple

    benzene_wrk = Abins(AbInitioProgram="CASTEP", VibrationalOrPhononFile="benzene.phonon",
                        QuantumOrderEventsNumber="1")


    for name in benzene_wrk.getNames():
        print(name)

Output:

.. testoutput:: AbinsCastepSimple

    benzene_wrk_C_total
    benzene_wrk_C
    benzene_wrk_H_total
    benzene_wrk_H

.. testcleanup:: AbinsCastepSimple

    import os
    os.remove("benzene.hdf5")

**Example - loading CRYSTAL phonon data:**

.. testcode:: AbinsCrystalSimple

    wrk=Abins(AbInitioProgram="CRYSTAL", VibrationalOrPhononFile="b3lyp.out", QuantumOrderEventsNumber="1")

    for name in wrk.getNames():
        print(name)

Output:

.. testoutput:: AbinsCrystalSimple

    wrk_C_total
    wrk_C
    wrk_H_total
    wrk_H
    wrk_N_total
    wrk_N
    wrk_Na_total
    wrk_Na
    wrk_O_total
    wrk_O

.. testcleanup:: AbinsCrystalSimple

    import os
    os.remove("b3lyp.hdf5")

**Example - calling AbINS with more arguments:**

.. testcode:: AbinsexplicitParameters

    wrk_verbose=Abins(AbInitioProgram="CASTEP", VibrationalOrPhononFile="benzene.phonon",
                      ExperimentalFile="benzene_experimental.dat",
                      TemperatureInKelvin=10, BinWidthInWavenumber=1.0, SampleForm="Powder", Instrument="TOSCA",
                      Atoms="H, atom1, atom2", SumContributions=True, QuantumOrderEventsNumber="1", ScaleByCrossSection="Incoherent")

    for name in wrk_verbose.getNames():
        print(name)

Output:

.. testoutput:: AbinsexplicitParameters

    experimental_wrk
    wrk_verbose_total
    wrk_verbose_H_total
    wrk_verbose_H
    wrk_verbose_atom_1_total
    wrk_verbose_atom_1
    wrk_verbose_atom_2_total
    wrk_verbose_atom_2

.. testcleanup:: AbinsexplicitParameters

    import os
    os.remove("benzene.hdf5")

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::
  :cpp: None
  :h: None


References
----------

.. [1] K. Dymkowski, S. F. Parker, F. Fernandez-Alonso and S. Mukhopadhyay,  “AbINS: The modern software for INS interpretation” , Physica B, doi:10.1016/j.physb.2018.02.034 (2018).
