docs/source/algorithms/ConjoinWorkspaces-v1.rst, before:

.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

This algorithm can be useful when working with large datasets. It
enables the raw file to be loaded in two parts (not necessarily of equal
size), the data processed in turn and the results joined back together
into a single dataset. This can help avoid memory problems either
because intermediate workspaces will be smaller and/or because the data
will be much reduced after processing.

The output of the algorithm, in which the data from the second input
workspace will be appended to the first, will be stored under the name
of the first input workspace. Workspace data members other than the data
(e.g. instrument etc.) will be copied from the first input workspace
(but if they're not identical anyway, then you probably shouldn't be
using this algorithm!). Both input workspaces will be deleted.

ConjoinWorkspaces operation
---------------------------

+------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
|Example case with input workspaces having | .. image:: ../images/ConjoinWorkspaces.png  |
|2 and 3 spectra respectively.             |    :height: 150                             |
|                                          |    :width: 400                              |
|                                          |    :alt: ConjoinWorkspaces operation        |
+------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+

Conflict Spectrum Numbers
#########################

The algorithm adds the spectra from the first workspace and then the
second workspace.

-  The original spectrum Nos will be respected if there is no conflict
   of spectrum Nos between the first workspace and the second.
-  If there are conflict in spectrum Nos, such that some spectrum Nos
   appear in both workspace1 and workspace2, then it will be resolved
   such that the spectrum Nos of spectra coming from workspace2 will be
   reset to some integer numbers larger than the largest spectrum No of
   the spectra from workspace1. Assuming that the largest spectrum No of
   workspace1 is S, then for any spectrum of workspace wi in workspace2,
   its spectrum No is equal to (S+1)+wi+offset, where offset is a
   non-negative integer.


Restrictions on the input workspace
###################################

The input workspaces must come from the same instrument, have common
units and bins and no detectors that contribute to spectra should
overlap.

Y axis units and labels
#######################

The optional parameters YAxisUnit and YAxisLabel can be used to change the
y axis unit and label when conjoining workspaces. Changing YAxisUnit updates
YAxisLabel automatically with the value of YAxisUnit, unless a separate value
is supplied.

Exception
#########

If property 'CheckOverlapping' is set to true, and there are spectra and/or detectors
are overlapping between two input workspaces,
then an 'invalid_argument' exception will be thrown from function 'CheckForOverlap'.

Usage
-----

**ConjoinWorkspaces Example**

.. testcode:: ConjoinWorkspacesEx

    ws1 = CreateSampleWorkspace(WorkspaceType="Histogram", NumBanks=2, BankPixelWidth=1, BinWidth=10, Xmax=50)
    print("Number of spectra in first workspace = {}".format(ws1.getNumberHistograms()))
    ws2 = CreateSampleWorkspace(WorkspaceType="Histogram", NumBanks=3, BankPixelWidth=1, BinWidth=10, Xmax=50)
    print("Number of spectra in second workspace = {}".format(ws2.getNumberHistograms()))
    ConjoinWorkspaces(InputWorkspace1=ws1, InputWorkspace2=ws2, CheckOverlapping=False, YAxisUnit="New unit", YAxisLabel="New label")
    ws = mtd['ws1'] # Have to update workspace from ADS, as it is an in-out parameter
    print("Number of spectra after ConjoinWorkspaces = {}".format(ws.getNumberHistograms()))
    print("Y unit is {}".format(ws.YUnit()))
    print("Y label {}".format(ws.YUnitLabel()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: ConjoinWorkspacesEx

    Number of spectra in first workspace = 2
    Number of spectra in second workspace = 3
    Number of spectra after ConjoinWorkspaces = 5
    Y unit is New unit
    Y label New label

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::

Commit message:

Added check to match bins before conjoining workspaces. (#38478)
* Added check to match bins before conjoining

* Added the optional boolean argument to ConjoinWorkspaces

* Fixed some of the failing python interface tests

* Updated the documentation for ConjoinWorkspaces

* Fixed the qt tests

* Fixed tests for RunDescriptor.py

* Fixed the conjoin workspaces c++  tests

* Added a new test to verify error msg when bins don't match

* Updated some files to fix system test failures

* Updated SANSDarkRunSubtractionTest.py

* Updated isis_reduction_steps.py

* Fixed the doc tests

* Updated Workspaces::matchingBins to accept shared_ptr

* Added release note

* Updated the release note to include algorithm link

* Updated docs and release note

Co-authored-by: Caila Finn <47181718+cailafinn@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Caila Finn <47181718+cailafinn@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/source/algorithms/ConjoinWorkspaces-v1.rst, after:

.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

This algorithm can be useful when working with large datasets. It
enables the raw file to be loaded in two parts (not necessarily of equal
size), the data processed in turn and the results joined back together
into a single dataset. This can help avoid memory problems either
because intermediate workspaces will be smaller and/or because the data
will be much reduced after processing.

The output of the algorithm, in which the data from the second input
workspace will be appended to the first, will be stored under the name
of the first input workspace. Workspace data members other than the data
(e.g. instrument etc.) will be copied from the first input workspace
(but if they're not identical anyway, then you probably shouldn't be
using this algorithm!). Both input workspaces will be deleted.

ConjoinWorkspaces operation
---------------------------

+------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+
|Example case with input workspaces having | .. image:: ../images/ConjoinWorkspaces.png  |
|2 and 3 spectra respectively.             |    :height: 150                             |
|                                          |    :width: 400                              |
|                                          |    :alt: ConjoinWorkspaces operation        |
+------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------+

Conflict Spectrum Numbers
#########################

The algorithm adds the spectra from the first workspace and then the
second workspace.

-  The original spectrum Nos will be respected if there is no conflict
   of spectrum Nos between the first workspace and the second.
-  If there are conflict in spectrum Nos, such that some spectrum Nos
   appear in both workspace1 and workspace2, then it will be resolved
   such that the spectrum Nos of spectra coming from workspace2 will be
   reset to some integer numbers larger than the largest spectrum No of
   the spectra from workspace1. Assuming that the largest spectrum No of
   workspace1 is S, then for any spectrum of workspace wi in workspace2,
   its spectrum No is equal to (S+1)+wi+offset, where offset is a
   non-negative integer.


Restrictions on the input workspace
###################################

The input workspaces must come from the same instrument, have common
units and bins and no detectors that contribute to spectra should
overlap.

Y axis units and labels
#######################

The optional parameters YAxisUnit and YAxisLabel can be used to change the
y axis unit and label when conjoining workspaces. Changing YAxisUnit updates
YAxisLabel automatically with the value of YAxisUnit, unless a separate value
is supplied.

Exceptions
##########

If property ``CheckMatchingBins`` is set to true, and the bins in the two input workspaces
do not match, then an ``invalid_argument`` exception will be thrown from the ``exec`` method.

If property 'CheckOverlapping' is set to true, and there are spectra and/or detectors
are overlapping between two input workspaces,
then an 'invalid_argument' exception will be thrown from 'CheckForOverlap' method.

Usage
-----

**ConjoinWorkspaces Example**

.. testcode:: ConjoinWorkspacesEx

    ws1 = CreateSampleWorkspace(WorkspaceType="Histogram", NumBanks=2, BankPixelWidth=1, BinWidth=10, Xmax=50)
    print("Number of spectra in first workspace = {}".format(ws1.getNumberHistograms()))
    ws2 = CreateSampleWorkspace(WorkspaceType="Histogram", NumBanks=2, BankPixelWidth=1, BinWidth=10, Xmax=50)
    print("Number of spectra in second workspace = {}".format(ws2.getNumberHistograms()))
    ConjoinWorkspaces(InputWorkspace1=ws1, InputWorkspace2=ws2, CheckOverlapping=False, YAxisUnit="New unit", YAxisLabel="New label")
    ws = mtd['ws1'] # Have to update workspace from ADS, as it is an in-out parameter
    print("Number of spectra after ConjoinWorkspaces = {}".format(ws.getNumberHistograms()))
    print("Y unit is {}".format(ws.YUnit()))
    print("Y label {}".format(ws.YUnitLabel()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: ConjoinWorkspacesEx

    Number of spectra in first workspace = 2
    Number of spectra in second workspace = 2
    Number of spectra after ConjoinWorkspaces = 4
    Y unit is New unit
    Y label New label

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::
