docs/source/algorithms/MaskBTP-v1.rst, before:


.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

Algorithm to mask detectors in particular banks, tube, or pixels. It
applies to the following instruments only: ARCS, CNCS, CORELLI, HYSPEC, NOMAD,
POWGEN, SEQUOIA, SNAP, TOPAZ. For instruments with rectangular position
sensitive detectors (POWGEN, SNAP, TOPAZ), the tube is corresponding to
the x coordinate, and pixel to the y coordinate. For example, on SNAP
Bank="1", Tube="3" corresponds to 'SNAP/East/Column1/bank1/bank1(x=3)',
and Bank="1", Tube="3", Pixel="5" is 'SNAP/East/Column1/bank1/bank1(x=3)/bank1(3,5)'.

If one of Bank, Tube, Pixel entries is left blank, it will apply to all
elements of that type. For example:

- MaskBTP(w,Bank = "1") will completely mask all tubes and pixels in bank 1. 
- MaskBTP(w,Pixel = "1,2") will mask all pixels 1 and 2, in all tubes, in all banks.

The algorithm allows ranged inputs: 

- Pixel = "1-8,121-128" is equivalent to Pixel = "1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,121,122,123,124,125,126,127,128"

.. Note::

    Either the input workspace or the instrument must be set. 
    If the workspace is set, the instrument is ignored.

Usage
-----

.. testcode:: MaskBTP

    a=MaskBTP(Instrument='CNCS',Tube='1-3')
    b=MaskBTP(Workspace='CNCSMaskBTP',Instrument='CNCS',Bank='40-50',Pixel='1-10')
    c=MaskBTP(Workspace='CNCSMaskBTP',Instrument='CNCS',Bank='42')
    print("Detectors masked")
    print("Step 1: 50 * 3 * 128 = {0.size}".format(a))
    print("Step 2: 11 * 8 * 10 = {0.size}".format(b))
    print("Step 3: 1 * 8 * 128 = {0.size}".format(c))

    print("Here are some of the masked detectors:")
    instrument=mtd['CNCSMaskBTP'].getInstrument()
    print("A pixel Bank 42, detector 42700:  {}".format(instrument.getDetector(42700).isMasked()))
    print("Pixel 1 in Tube 4 in Bank 45, detector 45440:  {}".format(instrument.getDetector(45440).isMasked()))
    print("Pixel 100 in Tube 2 in Bank 45, detector 45283:  {}".format(instrument.getDetector(45283).isMasked()))
    print("")
    print("And one that should not be masked")
    print("Pixel 128 in Tube 8 in Bank 50, detector 51199:  {}".format(instrument.getDetector(51199).isMasked()))

.. testcleanup:: MaskBTP

   DeleteWorkspace('CNCSMaskBTP')


Output:

.. testoutput:: MaskBTP

    Detectors masked
    Step 1: 50 * 3 * 128 = 19200
    Step 2: 11 * 8 * 10 = 880
    Step 3: 1 * 8 * 128 = 1024
    Here are some of the masked detectors:
    A pixel Bank 42, detector 42700:  True
    Pixel 1 in Tube 4 in Bank 45, detector 45440:  True
    Pixel 100 in Tube 2 in Bank 45, detector 45283:  True
    
    And one that should not be masked
    Pixel 128 in Tube 8 in Bank 50, detector 51199:  False

The instrument view should look like

.. figure:: /images/MaskBTP.png
   :alt: MaskBTP.png

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::

Commit message:

Add property for masking named components
This is intended for masking the front or back planes of EQ-SANS, but it
written to work generically. Using this property also makes the
algorithm work with any instrument in this mode.

docs/source/algorithms/MaskBTP-v1.rst, after:


.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

Algorithm to mask detectors in particular banks, tube, or pixels.
To use the ``Bank`` argument, the instrument must be one of: ARCS, BIOSANS, CG2 CNCS, CORELLI, EQ-SANS HYSPEC, MANDI, NOMAD, POWGEN, SEQUOIA, SNAP, SXD, TOPAZ, WAND, WISH.
For instruments with rectangular position sensitive detectors (POWGEN, SNAP, TOPAZ), the tube is corresponding to the x coordinate, and pixel to the y coordinate.
For example, on SNAP ``Bank="1"``, ``Tube="3"`` corresponds to ``SNAP/East/Column1/bank1/bank1(x=3)``, and ``Bank="1"``, ``Tube="3"``, ``Pixel="5"`` is ``SNAP/East/Column1/bank1/bank1(x=3)/bank1(3,5)``.

If one of ``Bank``, ``Tube``, ``Pixel`` entries is left blank, it will apply to all
elements of that type. For example:

- ``MaskBTP(w,Bank = "1")`` will completely mask all tubes and pixels in bank 1.
- ``MaskBTP(w,Pixel = "1,2")`` will mask all pixels 1 and 2, in all tubes, in all banks.

The algorithm allows ranged inputs:

- ``Pixel="1-8,121-128"` is equivalent to ``Pixel="1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,121,122,123,124,125,126,127,128"

Alternatively, the ``Components`` argument can be used to select named components instead of ``Banks``.
This is can be used for masking entire sub-components of an instrument.

.. Note::

    Either the input workspace or the instrument must be set.
    If the workspace is set, the instrument is ignored.

Usage
-----

.. testcode:: MaskBTP

    a=MaskBTP(Instrument='CNCS',Tube='1-3')
    b=MaskBTP(Workspace='CNCSMaskBTP',Instrument='CNCS',Bank='40-50',Pixel='1-10')
    c=MaskBTP(Workspace='CNCSMaskBTP',Instrument='CNCS',Bank='42')
    print("Detectors masked")
    print("Step 1: 50 * 3 * 128 = {0.size}".format(a))
    print("Step 2: 11 * 8 * 10 = {0.size}".format(b))
    print("Step 3: 1 * 8 * 128 = {0.size}".format(c))

    print("Here are some of the masked detectors:")
    instrument=mtd['CNCSMaskBTP'].getInstrument()
    print("A pixel Bank 42, detector 42700:  {}".format(instrument.getDetector(42700).isMasked()))
    print("Pixel 1 in Tube 4 in Bank 45, detector 45440:  {}".format(instrument.getDetector(45440).isMasked()))
    print("Pixel 100 in Tube 2 in Bank 45, detector 45283:  {}".format(instrument.getDetector(45283).isMasked()))
    print("")
    print("And one that should not be masked")
    print("Pixel 128 in Tube 8 in Bank 50, detector 51199:  {}".format(instrument.getDetector(51199).isMasked()))

.. testcleanup:: MaskBTP

   DeleteWorkspace('CNCSMaskBTP')


Output:

.. testoutput:: MaskBTP

    Detectors masked
    Step 1: 50 * 3 * 128 = 19200
    Step 2: 11 * 8 * 10 = 880
    Step 3: 1 * 8 * 128 = 1024
    Here are some of the masked detectors:
    A pixel Bank 42, detector 42700:  True
    Pixel 1 in Tube 4 in Bank 45, detector 45440:  True
    Pixel 100 in Tube 2 in Bank 45, detector 45283:  True

    And one that should not be masked
    Pixel 128 in Tube 8 in Bank 50, detector 51199:  False

The instrument view should look like

.. figure:: /images/MaskBTP.png
   :alt: MaskBTP.png

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::
