docs/source/algorithms/MDNormDirectSC-v1.rst, before:


.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

The algorithm calculates a normalization MD workspace for single crystal direct geometry inelastic experiments. 
Trajectories of each detector in reciprocal space are calculated, and the flux is integrated between intersections with each
MDBox. A brief introduction to the multi-dimensional data normalization can be found :ref:`here <MDNorm>`.

.. Note::

    This is an experimental algorithm in Release 3.3. Please check the nightly Mantid build, and the Mantid webpage
    for better offline help and usage examples.

.. Note::

    If the MDEvent input workspace is generated from an event workspace, the algorithm gives the correct normalization
    only if the event workspace is cropped and binned to the same energy transfer range. If the workspace is not cropped, 
    one might have events in places where the normalization is calculated to be 0.


Usage
-----

.. include:: ../usagedata-note.txt

**Example - MDNormDirectSC**

.. code-block:: python

    import mantid
    import os
    from mantid.simpleapi import *
    config['default.facility']="SNS"
    from numpy import *
    
    DGS_input_data=Load("CNCS_7860")
    # Keep events (SofPhiEIsDistribution=False)
    # Do not normalize by proton charge in DgsReduction
    DGS_output_data=DgsReduction(
             SampleInputWorkspace=DGS_input_data,
             SofPhiEIsDistribution=False,
             IncidentBeamNormalisation="None",
             EnergyTransferRange="-1.5,0.01,2.7",
            )
    DGS_output_data=DGS_output_data[0]
    SetGoniometer(DGS_output_data,Axis0="10.,0,1,0,1")
    SetUB(DGS_output_data, 5.,3.2,7.2)
    DGS_output_data=CropWorkspace(DGS_output_data,XMin=-1.5,XMax=2.7)
    MDE=ConvertToMD(DGS_output_data,
            QDimensions="Q3D",
            dEAnalysisMode="Direct",
            Q3DFrames="HKL",
            QConversionScales="HKL")
    histoData,histoNorm=MDNormDirectSC(MDE,
            AlignedDim0="[H,0,0],-0.2,1.6,100",
            AlignedDim1="DeltaE,-1.5,3.,100",
            )
    normalized=histoData/histoNorm
    histoShape=histoNorm.getSignalArray().shape
    print "The normalization workspace shape is (%d, %d)" % histoShape
    print "Out of those elements, "+str(nonzero(histoNorm.getSignalArray())[0].size)+" are nonzero"
   
.. code-block:: python 

    The normalization workspace shape is (100, 100)
    Out of those elements, 6712 are nonzero    

The output would look like:

.. figure:: /images/MDNormDirectSC.png
   :alt: MDNormDirectSC.png     

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::

Commit message:

MDNormDirectSC can now handle merged MDEventWorkspaces

docs/source/algorithms/MDNormDirectSC-v1.rst, after:


.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------

The algorithm calculates a normalization MD workspace for single crystal direct geometry inelastic experiments. 
Trajectories of each detector in reciprocal space are calculated, and the flux is integrated between intersections with each
MDBox. A brief introduction to the multi-dimensional data normalization can be found :ref:`here <MDNorm>`.

.. Note::

    If the MDEvent input workspace is generated from an event workspace, the algorithm gives the correct normalization
    only if the event workspace is cropped and binned to the same energy transfer range. If the workspace is not cropped, 
    one might have events in places where the normalization is calculated to be 0.

.. Note::

    As of :ref:`Release 3.14.0 <v3.14.0>`, the algorithm can handle merged MD workspaces. Make sure all original MDEvent workspaces have the same dimensions

Usage
-----

.. include:: ../usagedata-note.txt

**Example - MDNormDirectSC**

.. code-block:: python

    import mantid
    import os
    from mantid.simpleapi import *
    config['default.facility']="SNS"
    from numpy import *
    
    DGS_input_data=Load("CNCS_7860")
    # Keep events (SofPhiEIsDistribution=False)
    # Do not normalize by proton charge in DgsReduction
    DGS_output_data=DgsReduction(
             SampleInputWorkspace=DGS_input_data,
             SofPhiEIsDistribution=False,
             IncidentBeamNormalisation="None",
             EnergyTransferRange="-1.5,0.01,2.7",
            )
    DGS_output_data=DGS_output_data[0]
    SetGoniometer(DGS_output_data,Axis0="10.,0,1,0,1")
    SetUB(DGS_output_data, 5.,3.2,7.2)
    DGS_output_data=CropWorkspace(DGS_output_data,XMin=-1.5,XMax=2.7)
    MDE=ConvertToMD(DGS_output_data,
            QDimensions="Q3D",
            dEAnalysisMode="Direct",
            Q3DFrames="HKL",
            QConversionScales="HKL")
    histoData,histoNorm=MDNormDirectSC(MDE,
            AlignedDim0="[H,0,0],-0.2,1.6,100",
            AlignedDim1="DeltaE,-1.5,3.,100",
            )
    normalized=histoData/histoNorm
    histoShape=histoNorm.getSignalArray().shape
    print "The normalization workspace shape is (%d, %d)" % histoShape
    print "Out of those elements, "+str(nonzero(histoNorm.getSignalArray())[0].size)+" are nonzero"
   
.. code-block:: python 

    The normalization workspace shape is (100, 100)
    Out of those elements, 6712 are nonzero    

The output would look like:

.. figure:: /images/MDNormDirectSC.png
   :alt: MDNormDirectSC.png     

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::
