docs/source/algorithms/PolarizationCorrectionWildes-v1.rst, before:


.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------


This algorithm corrects for non-ideal instrument component efficiencies in a polarization analysis experiment by following the procedure and conventions introduced by Wildes [#WILDES]_. In the full polarization analysis case it solves the corrected count rates :math:`\Sigma^{++}`, :math:`\Sigma^{+-}`, :math:`\Sigma^{-+}` and :math:`\Sigma^{--}` from the equation

.. math::
   \begin{bmatrix}
   \Sigma^{++} \\
   \Sigma^{+-} \\
   \Sigma^{-+} \\
   \Sigma^{--}
   \end{bmatrix}
   = \begin{bmatrix}
        M
     \end{bmatrix}
   \begin{bmatrix}
   I^{00} \\
   I^{01} \\
   I^{10} \\
   I^{11}
   \end{bmatrix},

where :math:`I^{jk}` are the experimental count rates for flipper configuration :math:`jk` and
:math:`\begin{bmatrix}M\end{bmatrix}` is the four-by-four correction matrix as defined by equations (4) in [#WILDES]_.

Flipper configurations
######################

*InputWorkspaces* is a list containing one to four workspace names (X unit: wavelength) corresponding to the instrument configurations given as *Flippers*. Supported configurations are:

:literal:`'00, 01, 10, 11'`
   Full polarization corrections: both flippers off, analyzer flipper on, polarizer flipper on, both flippers on. Four input workspaces are required. The flipper configuration can be provided in any order and should match the order of the workspaces in the input group.

:literal:`'00, 01, 11'` and :literal:`'00, 10, 11'`
   Polarization corrections with the assumption that the corrected count rates :math:`\Sigma^{+-} = \Sigma^{-+}`. In this case the intensity of the missing flipper configuration (01 or 10) can be solved from the other intensities. The flipper configuration can be provided in any order and should match the order of the workspaces in the input group.

:literal:`'00, 11'`
   Polarization corrections with the assumption that the corrected count rates :math:`\Sigma^{+-} = \Sigma^{-+} = 0`. In this case the intensities of the missing flipper configurations (01 and 10) can be solved from the other intensities. The flipper configuration can be provided in any order and should match the order of the workspaces in the input group.

:literal:`'0, 1'`
   Polarization corrections when no analyzer has been used: polarizer flipper off, polarizer flipper on. The flipper configuration can be provided in any order and should match the order of the workspaces in the input group.

:literal:`'0'`
   Polarization corrections for a direct beam measurement in a reflectometry experiment.

Spin States
###########

The order of the workspaces in the output group workspace can be defined by setting the values in the *SpinStates*
property. Supported configurations are:

:literal:`''`
    Default behaviour. The output workspace group will be in the order :literal:`'++, +-, -+, --'` for all outputs. In
    instances where not all outputs are produced, the order is maintained with the missing workspaces omitted (e.g.
    :literal:`'++, --'`).

:literal:`'++, --, +-, --'`
    For polarization corrections where both an analyzer and polarizer are used. The order of the states in the string
    will be the same as the order of the workspaces in the *OutputWorkspace* group. Only allowed if flipper
    configuration accounts for both flippers (contains two digits).

:literal:`'--, ++'`
    For polarization corrections when no analyzer has been used. Only allowed if the flipper configuration is also
    setup this way (e.g. :literal:`'1, 0'`).

*Note:* Output order cannot be set for direct beam measurements as there is only a single workspace in the output.

Output
######

The algorithm's output is a group workspace containing the corrected workspaces. The names of each corrected workspace is suffixed by :literal:`_++`, :literal:`_+-`, :literal:`_-+` or :literal:`_--` depending on which :math:`\Sigma^{mn}` they correspond to.

Efficiency factors
##################

The *Efficiencies* input property expects to get a workspace with the following properties:

* Contains four histograms, each labeled by their vertical axis as :literal:`P1`, :literal:`P2`, :literal:`F1`, :literal:`F2`. Other histograms (if present) are ignored.
* The Y values of each histogram should be the corresponding efficiencies as functions of wavelength as defined in [#WILDES]_.
* The wavelength values (X values) should be the same is in the input workspaces.

.. note::
   Users at ILL can load a conforming efficiency workspace from disk by :ref:`algm-LoadILLPolarizationFactors`.

Error propagation
#################

.. note::
   Errors are calculated as per Wildes [#WILDES]_, except for the numerically solved intensity in :literal:`'00, 01, 11'` and :literal:`'00, 10, 11'` flipper configurations in which case the uncertainties of :math:`\Sigma^{+-}` or :math:`\Sigma^{-+}` are set to zero.

Usage
-----

.. include:: ../usagedata-note.txt

**Example - PolarizationEfficiencyCor**

.. testcode:: PolarizationEfficiencyCorExample

   LoadILLReflectometry(
       Filename='ILL/D17/317370.nxs',
       OutputWorkspace='direct_beam',
       XUnit='TimeOfFlight')
   LoadILLReflectometry(
       Filename='ILL/D17/317370.nxs',
       OutputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       Measurement='ReflectedBeam',
       BraggAngle=0.8,
       XUnit='TimeOfFlight')
   # Sum pixels containing the reflected intensity
   GroupDetectors(
       InputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       OutputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       WorkspaceIndexList=[199, 200, 201, 202, 203, 204, 205])
   ConvertUnits(
       InputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       OutputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       Target='Wavelength',
       EMode='Elastic')
   # There are some unphysical wavelengths
   CropWorkspace(
       InputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       OutputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       XMin=0.)
   # Fake two flipper configurations
   RenameWorkspace(
       InputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       OutputWorkspace='up'
   )
   CloneWorkspace(
       InputWorkspace='up',
       OutputWorkspace='down'
   )
   Scale(
       InputWorkspace='down',
       OutputWorkspace='down',
       Factor=0.1
   )
   LoadILLPolarizationFactors(
       Filename='ILL/D17/PolarizationFactors.txt',
       OutputWorkspace='efficiencies',
       WavelengthReference='up')
   PolarizationEfficiencyCor(
       InputWorkspaces='up, down',
       OutputWorkspace='corrected',
       Efficiencies='efficiencies',
       Flippers='00, 11')

   orig = mtd['up']
   corr = mtd['corrected_++']
   index = orig.yIndexOfX(15.)
   ratio_up = corr.readY(0)[index] / orig.readY(0)[index]
   print("Ratio of corrected and original 'up' intensity at 15A: {:.4}".format(ratio_up))
   orig = mtd['down']
   corr = mtd['corrected_--']
   index = orig.yIndexOfX(15.)
   ratio_down = corr.readY(0)[index] / orig.readY(0)[index]
   print("Ratio of corrected and original 'down' intensity at 15A: {:.4}".format(ratio_down))

Output:

.. testoutput:: PolarizationEfficiencyCorExample

   Ratio of corrected and original 'up' intensity at 15A: 0.1062
   Ratio of corrected and original 'down' intensity at 15A: 10.38

References
----------

.. [#WILDES] A. R. Wildes, *Neutron News*, **17** 17 (2006)
             `doi: 10.1080/10448630600668738 <https://doi.org/10.1080/10448630600668738>`_

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::

Commit message:

Add option for PolarizationCorrectionWildes to include output spin state in log
This is a squashed version of #38322

Add unit tests to check for spin state sample log

Add ORSO polarizations constants and helper methods

Add optional ORSO spin state log to corrected workspaces

Use static const for polarisation constants

We were previously using constexpr however it seems that this might not
be ideal for string constants because they cannot be passed by
reference.

Refactor setting sample log on output ws

Refactor the code for setting the spin state sample log on the output
workspace to reduce code duplication.

Use spin state log constant in Wildes tests

Expose AddSpinStateToLog parameter in PolarizationEfficiencyCor

Update algorithm documentation

Add release notes for issue 38264

[pre-commit.ci] auto fixes from pre-commit.com hooks

for more information, see https://pre-commit.ci

Fix build errors and warnings

Add a missing import and remove an unused variable.

docs/source/algorithms/PolarizationCorrectionWildes-v1.rst, after:


.. algorithm::

.. summary::

.. relatedalgorithms::

.. properties::

Description
-----------


This algorithm corrects for non-ideal instrument component efficiencies in a polarization analysis experiment by following the procedure and conventions introduced by Wildes [#WILDES]_. In the full polarization analysis case it solves the corrected count rates :math:`\Sigma^{++}`, :math:`\Sigma^{+-}`, :math:`\Sigma^{-+}` and :math:`\Sigma^{--}` from the equation

.. math::
   \begin{bmatrix}
   \Sigma^{++} \\
   \Sigma^{+-} \\
   \Sigma^{-+} \\
   \Sigma^{--}
   \end{bmatrix}
   = \begin{bmatrix}
        M
     \end{bmatrix}
   \begin{bmatrix}
   I^{00} \\
   I^{01} \\
   I^{10} \\
   I^{11}
   \end{bmatrix},

where :math:`I^{jk}` are the experimental count rates for flipper configuration :math:`jk` and
:math:`\begin{bmatrix}M\end{bmatrix}` is the four-by-four correction matrix as defined by equations (4) in [#WILDES]_.

Flipper configurations
######################

*InputWorkspaces* is a list containing one to four workspace names (X unit: wavelength) corresponding to the instrument configurations given as *Flippers*. Supported configurations are:

:literal:`'00, 01, 10, 11'`
   Full polarization corrections: both flippers off, analyzer flipper on, polarizer flipper on, both flippers on. Four input workspaces are required. The flipper configuration can be provided in any order and should match the order of the workspaces in the input group.

:literal:`'00, 01, 11'` and :literal:`'00, 10, 11'`
   Polarization corrections with the assumption that the corrected count rates :math:`\Sigma^{+-} = \Sigma^{-+}`. In this case the intensity of the missing flipper configuration (01 or 10) can be solved from the other intensities. The flipper configuration can be provided in any order and should match the order of the workspaces in the input group.

:literal:`'00, 11'`
   Polarization corrections with the assumption that the corrected count rates :math:`\Sigma^{+-} = \Sigma^{-+} = 0`. In this case the intensities of the missing flipper configurations (01 and 10) can be solved from the other intensities. The flipper configuration can be provided in any order and should match the order of the workspaces in the input group.

:literal:`'0, 1'`
   Polarization corrections when no analyzer has been used: polarizer flipper off, polarizer flipper on. The flipper configuration can be provided in any order and should match the order of the workspaces in the input group.

:literal:`'0'`
   Polarization corrections for a direct beam measurement in a reflectometry experiment.

Spin States
###########

The order of the workspaces in the output group workspace can be defined by setting the values in the *SpinStates*
property. Supported configurations are:

:literal:`''`
    Default behaviour. The output workspace group will be in the order :literal:`'++, +-, -+, --'` for all outputs. In
    instances where not all outputs are produced, the order is maintained with the missing workspaces omitted (e.g.
    :literal:`'++, --'`).

:literal:`'++, --, +-, --'`
    For polarization corrections where both an analyzer and polarizer are used. The order of the states in the string
    will be the same as the order of the workspaces in the *OutputWorkspace* group. Only allowed if flipper
    configuration accounts for both flippers (contains two digits).

:literal:`'--, ++'`
    For polarization corrections when no analyzer has been used. Only allowed if the flipper configuration is also
    setup this way (e.g. :literal:`'1, 0'`).

*Note:* Output order cannot be set for direct beam measurements as there is only a single workspace in the output.

Output
######

The algorithm's output is a group workspace containing the corrected workspaces. The names of each corrected workspace is suffixed by :literal:`_++`, :literal:`_+-`, :literal:`_-+` or :literal:`_--` depending on which :math:`\Sigma^{mn}` they correspond to.

If the ``AddSpinStateToLog`` property has been set to ``True`` then a sample log entry called ``spin_state_ORSO`` is added to each output child workspace.
This log entry specifies the spin state of the data using the notation from the Reflectometry ORSO data standard [#ORSO]_.

Efficiency factors
##################

The *Efficiencies* input property expects to get a workspace with the following properties:

* Contains four histograms, each labeled by their vertical axis as :literal:`P1`, :literal:`P2`, :literal:`F1`, :literal:`F2`. Other histograms (if present) are ignored.
* The Y values of each histogram should be the corresponding efficiencies as functions of wavelength as defined in [#WILDES]_.
* The wavelength values (X values) should be the same is in the input workspaces.

.. note::
   Users at ILL can load a conforming efficiency workspace from disk by :ref:`algm-LoadILLPolarizationFactors`.

Error propagation
#################

.. note::
   Errors are calculated as per Wildes [#WILDES]_, except for the numerically solved intensity in :literal:`'00, 01, 11'` and :literal:`'00, 10, 11'` flipper configurations in which case the uncertainties of :math:`\Sigma^{+-}` or :math:`\Sigma^{-+}` are set to zero.

Usage
-----

.. include:: ../usagedata-note.txt

**Example - PolarizationEfficiencyCor**

.. testcode:: PolarizationEfficiencyCorExample

   LoadILLReflectometry(
       Filename='ILL/D17/317370.nxs',
       OutputWorkspace='direct_beam',
       XUnit='TimeOfFlight')
   LoadILLReflectometry(
       Filename='ILL/D17/317370.nxs',
       OutputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       Measurement='ReflectedBeam',
       BraggAngle=0.8,
       XUnit='TimeOfFlight')
   # Sum pixels containing the reflected intensity
   GroupDetectors(
       InputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       OutputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       WorkspaceIndexList=[199, 200, 201, 202, 203, 204, 205])
   ConvertUnits(
       InputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       OutputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       Target='Wavelength',
       EMode='Elastic')
   # There are some unphysical wavelengths
   CropWorkspace(
       InputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       OutputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       XMin=0.)
   # Fake two flipper configurations
   RenameWorkspace(
       InputWorkspace='reflected_beam',
       OutputWorkspace='up'
   )
   CloneWorkspace(
       InputWorkspace='up',
       OutputWorkspace='down'
   )
   Scale(
       InputWorkspace='down',
       OutputWorkspace='down',
       Factor=0.1
   )
   LoadILLPolarizationFactors(
       Filename='ILL/D17/PolarizationFactors.txt',
       OutputWorkspace='efficiencies',
       WavelengthReference='up')
   PolarizationEfficiencyCor(
       InputWorkspaces='up, down',
       OutputWorkspace='corrected',
       Efficiencies='efficiencies',
       Flippers='00, 11')

   orig = mtd['up']
   corr = mtd['corrected_++']
   index = orig.yIndexOfX(15.)
   ratio_up = corr.readY(0)[index] / orig.readY(0)[index]
   print("Ratio of corrected and original 'up' intensity at 15A: {:.4}".format(ratio_up))
   orig = mtd['down']
   corr = mtd['corrected_--']
   index = orig.yIndexOfX(15.)
   ratio_down = corr.readY(0)[index] / orig.readY(0)[index]
   print("Ratio of corrected and original 'down' intensity at 15A: {:.4}".format(ratio_down))

Output:

.. testoutput:: PolarizationEfficiencyCorExample

   Ratio of corrected and original 'up' intensity at 15A: 0.1062
   Ratio of corrected and original 'down' intensity at 15A: 10.38

References
----------

.. [#WILDES] A. R. Wildes, *Neutron News*, **17** 17 (2006)
             `doi: 10.1080/10448630600668738 <https://doi.org/10.1080/10448630600668738>`_
.. [#ORSO] ORSO file format specification: `https://www.reflectometry.org/file_format/specification <https://www.reflectometry.org/file_format/specification>`_

.. categories::

.. sourcelink::
