Code/Mantid/docs/source/interfaces/Tomographic_Reconstruction.rst, before:

Data Comparison
===============

.. contents:: Table of Contents
  :local:

Overview
--------

This interface aims at integrating and simplifying the following tasks
related to tomographic reconstruction and imaging with neutrons:


while much of its functionality is being developed in a generic way,
it is presently being tested and trialed for the IMAT instrument at
ISIS.

.. interface:: Tomographic Reconstruction
  :align: right

An important feature of this interface is the capability to submit
jobs to a remote compute resource (a compute cluster for
example). Currently remote jobs are run on the `SCARF cluster
<http://www.scarf.rl.ac.uk/>`_, administered by the Scientific
Computing Department of STFC. You can also use this cluster via remote
login and through its `web portal <https://portal.scarf.rl.ac.uk/>`_.


Interface at a glance
---------------------

By default the interface shows the *Run* tab, where you can visualize
images, submit reconstruction jobs, see and control the status of the
jobs submitted recently.

.. interface:: Tomographic Reconstruction
  :widget: runTab
  :align: right

In the setup tab you can set the details of the remote and/or local
compute resources. Importantly, here is where you can set you username
and password to log into the remote compute resource.
          
.. interface:: Tomographic Reconstruction
  :widget: setupTab
  :align: right

In principle, the use of this interface is straightforward. The next
sections provide all the details that might be needed to fully
understand the process.

Tools
-----

At the moment two reconstruction tools are being set up and trialed on
SCARF:

* `TomoPy
  <https://www1.aps.anl.gov/Science/Scientific-Software/TomoPy>`_

* `Astra Toolbox
    <http://sourceforge.net/p/astra-toolbox/wiki/Home/>`_

In the near future it is expected that support will be added for `Savu
<https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/Savu>`_, developed at the
Diamond Light Source.

Data formats
------------

In principle, users do not need to deal with specificities of
different file formats. That is the aim of this interface, but as it
is currently being developed, and for reference a brief list of
relevant file and data formats is given here:

* FITS: `Flexible Image Transport System format
  <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FITS>`__ used to store images in
  files. You can see the details on how FITS images can be loaded into
  Mantid in the documentation of the algorithm LoadFITS
  `<http://docs.mantidproject.org/nightly/algorithms/LoadFITS-v1.html>`__.

* TIFF: `Tagged Image File Format
  <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tagged_Image_File_Format>`__ images
  used as FITS for image or slice files. This format is presently not
  supported in the Mantid data analysis framework but it is used in
  the tomographic reconstruction interface.

* Diamond Light Source (DLS) NXTomo: a specific NeXus format used by
  some of the tools that this interface supports or will support. See
  next sections for details.

These formats are used in different processing steps and parts of this
interface. For example, you can visualize FITS and TIFF images in the
**Run** tab. As another example, the reconstruction tools typically
need as inputs at least a stack of images which can be in different
formats, including a set of FITS or TIFF files, or a single DLS NXTomo
file. Other third party tools use files in these formats as inputs,
outputs or both.

Data locations
--------------

This is dependent on the facility and instrument.

TODO: this is work in progress. In principle data will be replicated
in the ISIS archive, the SCARF imat disk space, and possibly an
analysis machine located in R3.

Running jobs remotely
---------------------

Running jobs locally
--------------------

Example
-------

TODO: ideally, come up with a good and small example data set.

TomoPy
------

TODO: how to use it. Hints.

Astra Toolbox
-------------

TODO: how to use it. Hints.

Astra Toolbox
-------------

TODO: how to use it. Hints.

Savu
----

TODO: how to use it. Hints.

Savu uses a specific file format developed by the Diamond Light
Source, the DLS NXTomo. A few examples can be found from `the savu
repository on GitHub
<https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/Savu/tree/master/test_data>`__.

Pipeline configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Savu reconstruction pipeline is defined by a list of processing
steps (or plugins) and their parameters. In the Savu setup dialog this
list is built on the right panel (current configuration) by adding and
sorting available plugins available from the tree shown on the left
panel.

.. interface:: Tomographic Reconstruction
  :widget: savuConfigCentralWidget
  :align: right

From the file menu, different savu configurations can be saved for
later use and loaded from previously saved files.


.. categories:: Interfaces Diffraction

Commit message:

leave savu screenshot out for now, re #10564

Code/Mantid/docs/source/interfaces/Tomographic_Reconstruction.rst, after:

Data Comparison
===============

.. contents:: Table of Contents
  :local:

Overview
--------

This interface aims at integrating and simplifying the following tasks
related to tomographic reconstruction and imaging with neutrons:


while much of its functionality is being developed in a generic way,
it is presently being tested and trialed for the IMAT instrument at
ISIS.

.. interface:: Tomographic Reconstruction
  :align: right

An important feature of this interface is the capability to submit
jobs to a remote compute resource (a compute cluster for
example). Currently remote jobs are run on the `SCARF cluster
<http://www.scarf.rl.ac.uk/>`_, administered by the Scientific
Computing Department of STFC. You can also use this cluster via remote
login and through its `web portal <https://portal.scarf.rl.ac.uk/>`_.


Interface at a glance
---------------------

By default the interface shows the *Run* tab, where you can visualize
images, submit reconstruction jobs, see and control the status of the
jobs submitted recently.

.. interface:: Tomographic Reconstruction
  :widget: runTab
  :align: right

In the setup tab you can set the details of the remote and/or local
compute resources. Importantly, here is where you can set you username
and password to log into the remote compute resource.
          
.. interface:: Tomographic Reconstruction
  :widget: setupTab
  :align: right

In principle, the use of this interface is straightforward. The next
sections provide all the details that might be needed to fully
understand the process.

Tools
-----

At the moment two reconstruction tools are being set up and trialed on
SCARF:

* `TomoPy
  <https://www1.aps.anl.gov/Science/Scientific-Software/TomoPy>`_

* `Astra Toolbox
    <http://sourceforge.net/p/astra-toolbox/wiki/Home/>`_

In the near future it is expected that support will be added for `Savu
<https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/Savu>`_, developed at the
Diamond Light Source.

Data formats
------------

In principle, users do not need to deal with specificities of
different file formats. That is the aim of this interface, but as it
is currently being developed, and for reference a brief list of
relevant file and data formats is given here:

* FITS: `Flexible Image Transport System format
  <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FITS>`__ used to store images in
  files. You can see the details on how FITS images can be loaded into
  Mantid in the documentation of the algorithm LoadFITS
  `<http://docs.mantidproject.org/nightly/algorithms/LoadFITS-v1.html>`__.

* TIFF: `Tagged Image File Format
  <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tagged_Image_File_Format>`__ images
  used as FITS for image or slice files. This format is presently not
  supported in the Mantid data analysis framework but it is used in
  the tomographic reconstruction interface.

* Diamond Light Source (DLS) NXTomo: a specific NeXus format used by
  some of the tools that this interface supports or will support. See
  next sections for details.

These formats are used in different processing steps and parts of this
interface. For example, you can visualize FITS and TIFF images in the
**Run** tab. As another example, the reconstruction tools typically
need as inputs at least a stack of images which can be in different
formats, including a set of FITS or TIFF files, or a single DLS NXTomo
file. Other third party tools use files in these formats as inputs,
outputs or both.

Data locations
--------------

This is dependent on the facility and instrument.

TODO: this is work in progress. In principle data will be replicated
in the ISIS archive, the SCARF imat disk space, and possibly an
analysis machine located in R3.

Running jobs remotely
---------------------

Running jobs locally
--------------------

Example
-------

TODO: ideally, come up with a good and small example data set.

TomoPy
------

TODO: how to use it. Hints.

Astra Toolbox
-------------

TODO: how to use it. Hints.

Astra Toolbox
-------------

TODO: how to use it. Hints.

Savu
----

TODO: how to use it. Hints.

Savu uses a specific file format developed by the Diamond Light
Source, the DLS NXTomo. A few examples can be found from `the savu
repository on GitHub
<https://github.com/DiamondLightSource/Savu/tree/master/test_data>`__.

Pipeline configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

A Savu reconstruction pipeline is defined by a list of processing
steps (or plugins) and their parameters. In the Savu setup dialog this
list is built on the right panel (current configuration) by adding and
sorting available plugins available from the tree shown on the left
panel. From the file menu, different savu configurations can be saved for
later use and loaded from previously saved files.

.. Leave this out for now. Not used at the moment.
   .. interface:: Tomographic Reconstruction
     :widget: savuConfigCentralWidget
     :align: right


.. categories:: Interfaces Diffraction
