docs/source/concepts/MatrixWorkspace.rst, before:

.. _MatrixWorkspace:


================
Matrix Workspace
================

.. contents::
  :local:

A Matrix Workspace is a generic name for a family which contains measured (or derived) data (Y) with associated errors (E) and an axis (X) giving information about where the measurement was made. The Matrix Workspace forms a 2D structure, more details on this will be provided below. This is the most common structure for storing data in  Mantid. This covers several more detailed workspace types including:

-  :ref:`Workspace2D <Workspace2D>` - A workspace for holding 2D, accumulated data in memory, this is the most commonly used to store histograms.
-  :ref:`EventWorkspace <EventWorkspace>` - A workspace that retains the individual neutron event data.

What information is in a Matrix Workspace
------------------------------------------

All Matrix Workspaces contain one or more rows of data. A single row is formed of a set of arrays (Y, E, X). For example, the output of a single detector in a white-beam measuring wavelength would form a single row. In this scenario The x-axis (or "horizontal axis") has units of length for wavelength, and Y would be the counts at each wavelength. The rows may have no correlation to each other. However, they are usually marked and sorted by some other attribute, such as detector number, or scattering angle. We call this row axis the "vertical axis". Axis have :ref:`Units <Unit Factory>`.

Also they may contain:

-  :ref:`Sample` and sample environment data
-  :ref:`Run` logs
-  Usable geometry may be present, for example to determine the position of each detector, see :ref:`here <InstrumentAccessLayers>` for more information
-  Spectra - detector mapping, and other spectra level information see :ref:`here <InstrumentAccessLayers>`.
-  :ref:`Histogram <HistogramData>` information
-  A list of 'masked' bins

Working with Matrix Workspaces in Python
----------------------------------------

As alluded to above, Matrix Workspace is an abstraction. Matrix Workspace provides access to the majority of the common information for all 2D workspaces in its family, without needing to know all the details of how that data is actually stored.

Matrix Workspaces have all the data and operations of the base :ref:`Workspace <Workspace>` class, but add operations to access the 2D data itself a useful way.

You can look at the :ref:`Matrix Workspace API reference <mantid.api.MatrixWorkspace>` for a full list of properties and operations, but here are some of the key ones.

Accessing Workspaces
####################

The methods for getting a variable to a Matrix Workspace is the same as shown in the :ref:`Workspace <Workspace-Accessing_Workspaces>` help page.

If you want to check if a variable points to something that is a Matrix Workspace you can use this:

.. testcode:: CheckMatrixWorkspace

    from mantid.simpleapi import *
    from mantid.api import MatrixWorkspace

    histoWS = CreateSampleWorkspace(WorkspaceType="Histogram")

    if isinstance(histoWS, MatrixWorkspace):
        print(histoWS.name() + " is a " + histoWS.id() + \
                 " and can be treated as a Matrix Workspace")

    print("\nFor more Matrix Workspace types")
    eventWS = CreateSampleWorkspace(WorkspaceType="Event")
    svWS = CreateSingleValuedWorkspace()
    tableWS = CreateEmptyTableWorkspace()
    groupWS = GroupWorkspaces("histoWS,eventWS")
    mdWS = CreateMDWorkspace(Dimensions=3, Extents='-10,10,-10,10,-10,10', Names='A,B,C', Units='U,U,U')
    mdHistoWS=CreateMDHistoWorkspace(Dimensionality=2,Extents='-3,3,-10,10',SignalInput=range(0,100),ErrorInput=range(0,100),\
                               NumberOfBins='10,10',Names='Dim1,Dim2',Units='MomentumTransfer,EnergyTransfer')

    myWorkspaceList = [histoWS,eventWS,svWS,tableWS,mdWS,mdHistoWS]
    print("Is Matrix Workspace?\tType")
    for ws in myWorkspaceList:
        print("{0}\t{1}".format(isinstance(ws, MatrixWorkspace), ws.id()))


Output:

.. testoutput:: CheckMatrixWorkspace
    :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

    histoWS is a Workspace2D and can be treated as a Matrix Workspace

    For more Matrix Workspace types
    Is Matrix Workspace? Type
    True        Workspace2D
    True        EventWorkspace
    True        WorkspaceSingleValue
    False       TableWorkspace
    False       MDEventWorkspace<MDLeanEvent,3>
    False       MDHistoWorkspace


Matrix Workspace Properties
###########################

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceProperties

  from mantid.simpleapi import Load
  ws = Load("MAR11015")

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceProperties

  # To find out the number of histograms in a workspace use getNumberHistograms()
  print("number of histograms = {0}".format(ws.getNumberHistograms()))

  # To find out the number of bins along the x-axis use blocksize()
  print("number of bins = {0}".format(ws.blocksize()))
  # To find out the bin containing a value use yIndexOfX()
  print("bin index containing 502.2 for a histogram (0 by default) = {0}".format(ws.yIndexOfX(502.2)))
  print("bin index containing 997.1 for histogram 272 = {0}".format(ws.yIndexOfX(997.1,272)))

  # To find a workspace index from a spectrum number
  print("workspace index for histogram 272 = {0}".format(ws.getIndexFromSpectrumNumber(272)))
  # To get the Run Number use getRunNumber()
  print("run number = {0}".format(ws.getRunNumber()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceProperties

    number of histograms = 922
    number of bins = 2663
    bin index containing 502.2 for a histogram (0 by default) = 19
    bin index containing 997.1 for histogram 272 = 39
    workspace index for histogram 272 = 271
    run number = 11015

Instrument
^^^^^^^^^^

You can get access to the :ref:`Instrument` for a workspace with

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceInstrument

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceInstrument

  instrument = ws.getInstrument()

For the properties and operations of the instrument look at the :ref:`Instrument help <Instrument>`.

Run - to access logs, and other run information
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can get access to the :ref:`Run` for a workspace with

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceRun

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceRun

  run = ws.getRun()

For the properties and operations of the run object and how to access log data look at the :ref:`Run help <Run>`.

Axes
^^^^

Axes are used primarily for labeling plots, but are also used as validation criteria for several algorithms.
You can list out the axes of a workspace using the following code.

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAxes

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()
  for i in range(ws.axes()):
      axis = ws.getAxis(i)
      print("Axis {0} is a {1}{2}{3}".format(i,
                                             "Spectrum Axis" if axis.isSpectra() else "",
                                             "Text Axis" if axis.isText() else "",
                                             "Numeric Axis" if axis.isNumeric() else ""))

      unit = axis.getUnit()
      print("\t caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
      print("\t symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceAxes
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  Axis 0 is a Numeric Axis
     caption:Time-of-flight
     symbol:microsecond
  Axis 1 is a Spectrum Axis
     caption:Spectrum
     symbol:



**Setting the axisLabel**


.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesLabel

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()
  axis = ws.getAxis(1)
  # Create a new axis
  axis.setUnit("Label").setLabel('Temperature', 'K')

  unit = axis.getUnit()
  print("New caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
  print("New symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesLabel
  :options: +ELLIPSIS,+NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  New caption:Temperature
  New symbol:K



**Replacing the Axis**

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesReplace

  from mantid.simpleapi import Load
  ws = Load("MAR11015")

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesReplace

  from mantid.api import NumericAxis

  axis = ws.getAxis(1)
  unit = axis.getUnit()
  print("Old caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
  print("Old symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

  # Create a new axis
  newAxis = NumericAxis.create(ws.getNumberHistograms())
  newAxis.setUnit("Label").setLabel('Temperature', 'K')

  # Set the vertical axis values
  for idx in range(0, ws.getNumberHistograms()):
      tempValue = idx*3+25 # some made up value
      newAxis.setValue(idx, tempValue)

  # Replace axis 1 with the new axis
  ws.replaceAxis(1, newAxis)

  axis = ws.getAxis(1)
  unit = axis.getUnit()
  print("New caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
  print("New symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))
  print("New values: {0}".format(axis.extractValues()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesReplace
    :options: +ELLIPSIS,+NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

    Old caption:Spectrum
    Old symbol:
    New caption:Temperature
    New symbol:K
    New values: [ 25. 28. ... 2785. 2788.]



**Setting the Y Label**

.. figure:: ../images/PlotMatrixWorkspaceYUnitElephants.png
   :alt: PlotMatrixWorkspaceYUnitElephants.png
   :align: right

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceYUnit

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceYUnit

  print(ws.YUnitLabel())
  ws.setYUnitLabel("Elephants")
  print(ws.YUnitLabel())

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceYUnit

  Counts
  Elephants

.. _MatrixWorkspace_Plotting:

Plotting
^^^^^^^^

You can specify the type of plot to be used when plotting a Matrix Workspace. The following plot types are available:
``plot``, ``marker``, ``errorbar_x``, ``errorbar_y``, ``errorbar_xy``, with ``plot`` as the default.
Changing the plot type will affect the way the data is displayed. An example of the different plot types can be seen in :ref:`mantid.plots`.
Below is a simple example changing the plot type, a full example is available in the :ref:`plotting gallery<MarkerWS_Example>` page.

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspacePlotType

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspacePlotType

    print(ws.getPlotType())
    ws.setPlotType("marker")
    print(ws.getPlotType())

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspacePlotType

  plot
  marker

**Setting Plot Marker**

When plotting multiple marker workspaces it may be necessary to set the marker type for each workspace.
If no marker is set, the default will be used from the :ref:`Properties File <Properties File>`. Marker style can be changed using the following code:

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceMarker

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceMarker

    ws.setMarkerStyle("circle")
    print(ws.getMarkerStyle())

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceMarker

  circle

Matrix Workspace Operations
###########################


.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceOperations

  from mantid.simpleapi import *
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceOperations

  # To create a copy of a workspace
  wsClone = ws.clone()
  # or
  wsClone = CloneWorkspace(ws)

  # To check if two variables point to the same workspace
  if ws == wsClone:
      print("They are the same workspace")

  # To check if two workspaces have equal values
  if ws.equals(wsClone, tolerance = 0.05):
      print("They have the same data")

  # To create a copy of a workspace
  wsWavelength = ws.convertUnits(Target="Wavelength")
  # or
  wsWavelength = ConvertUnits(ws,Target="Wavelength")

  # To rebin the workspace
  ws = ws.rebin(Params = 200)
  # or
  ws = Rebin(ws, Params = 200)

  # Mask detectors or spectra (or use the MaskDetectors algorithm
  ws.maskDetectors(SpectraList=[2,3,4])
  ws.maskDetectors(WorkspaceIndexList=range(101,105))
  ws.maskDetectors(DetectorList=[150,160,170])

  # To delete the workspace
  ws.delete()
  # or
  DeleteWorkspace(wsClone)
  # Do not access the python variable again as you will get a RuntimeError
  # e.g. RuntimeError: Variable invalidated, data has been deleted.

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceOperations
  :hide:

  They have the same data

Accessing Data
##############

A Matrix Workspace is essentially a 2D list of binned data where a workspace index, starting at 0, gives access to the data fields in each spectra.


The data is accessed using the ``readX()``, ``readY()`` and ``readE()`` commands. Each of these commands takes a number that refers to the index on the workspace and returns a list of the data for that workspace index, i.e

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceData

  from mantid.simpleapi import Load
  ws = Load("MAR11015")

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceData

  # Get the Y vector for the second row of data
  y_data2 = ws.readY(1)
  for y in y_data2:
      print(y)

  # Or in loop access. Print the first value in all spectra
  for index in range(0, ws.getNumberHistograms()):
      #Note the round brackets followed by the square brackets
      print(ws.readY(index)[0])

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceData
    :hide:
    :options: +ELLIPSIS,+NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

    24571.0
    13761.0
    ...
    62.0
    95.0

There are more examples how to :ref:`Extract and manipulate workspace data here <07_extract_manipulate_data>`.

.. _MatrixWorkspace Algebra:

Workspace algebra
#################

Matrix Workspaces can have algebraic operations applied to them directly without the need to call a specific algorithm, e.g. :ref:`Plus <algm-Plus>`


The expected operations of +,-,*,/ are supported with either a single number or another workspace as the second argument, e.g.

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceAlgebra

  from mantid.simpleapi import *
  workspace1 = Load("MAR11015")
  workspace2 = CloneWorkspace(workspace1)

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAlgebra

  w1 = mtd['workspace1']
  w2 = mtd['workspace2']

  # Sum the two workspaces and place the output into a third
  w3 = w1 + w2

  # Multiply the new workspace by 2 and place the output into a new workspace
  w4 = w3 * 2

It is also possible to replace one of the input workspaces using one of +=,-=,*=,/= e.g.

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceAlgebra2

  from mantid.simpleapi import *
  w1= Load("MAR11015")
  w2= CloneWorkspace(w1)

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAlgebra2

  # Multiply a workspace by 2 and replace w1 with the output
  w1 *= 2.0

  # Add 'workspace2' to 'workspace1' and replace 'workspace1' with the output
  w1 += w2


.. include:: WorkspaceNavigation.txt


.. categories:: Concepts

Commit message:

add statement about existing workspaces

docs/source/concepts/MatrixWorkspace.rst, after:

.. _MatrixWorkspace:


================
Matrix Workspace
================

.. contents::
  :local:

A Matrix Workspace is a generic name for a family which contains measured (or derived) data (Y) with associated errors (E) and an axis (X) giving information about where the measurement was made. The Matrix Workspace forms a 2D structure, more details on this will be provided below. This is the most common structure for storing data in  Mantid. This covers several more detailed workspace types including:

-  :ref:`Workspace2D <Workspace2D>` - A workspace for holding 2D, accumulated data in memory, this is the most commonly used to store histograms.
-  :ref:`EventWorkspace <EventWorkspace>` - A workspace that retains the individual neutron event data.

What information is in a Matrix Workspace
------------------------------------------

All Matrix Workspaces contain one or more rows of data. A single row is formed of a set of arrays (Y, E, X). For example, the output of a single detector in a white-beam measuring wavelength would form a single row. In this scenario The x-axis (or "horizontal axis") has units of length for wavelength, and Y would be the counts at each wavelength. The rows may have no correlation to each other. However, they are usually marked and sorted by some other attribute, such as detector number, or scattering angle. We call this row axis the "vertical axis". Axis have :ref:`Units <Unit Factory>`.

Also they may contain:

-  :ref:`Sample` and sample environment data
-  :ref:`Run` logs
-  Usable geometry may be present, for example to determine the position of each detector, see :ref:`here <InstrumentAccessLayers>` for more information
-  Spectra - detector mapping, and other spectra level information see :ref:`here <InstrumentAccessLayers>`.
-  :ref:`Histogram <HistogramData>` information
-  A list of 'masked' bins

Working with Matrix Workspaces in Python
----------------------------------------

As alluded to above, Matrix Workspace is an abstraction. Matrix Workspace provides access to the majority of the common information for all 2D workspaces in its family, without needing to know all the details of how that data is actually stored.

Matrix Workspaces have all the data and operations of the base :ref:`Workspace <Workspace>` class, but add operations to access the 2D data itself a useful way.

You can look at the :ref:`Matrix Workspace API reference <mantid.api.MatrixWorkspace>` for a full list of properties and operations, but here are some of the key ones.

Accessing Workspaces
####################

The methods for getting a variable to a Matrix Workspace is the same as shown in the :ref:`Workspace <Workspace-Accessing_Workspaces>` help page.

If you want to check if a variable points to something that is a Matrix Workspace you can use this:

.. testcode:: CheckMatrixWorkspace

    from mantid.simpleapi import *
    from mantid.api import MatrixWorkspace

    histoWS = CreateSampleWorkspace(WorkspaceType="Histogram")

    if isinstance(histoWS, MatrixWorkspace):
        print(histoWS.name() + " is a " + histoWS.id() + \
                 " and can be treated as a Matrix Workspace")

    print("\nFor more Matrix Workspace types")
    eventWS = CreateSampleWorkspace(WorkspaceType="Event")
    svWS = CreateSingleValuedWorkspace()
    tableWS = CreateEmptyTableWorkspace()
    groupWS = GroupWorkspaces("histoWS,eventWS")
    mdWS = CreateMDWorkspace(Dimensions=3, Extents='-10,10,-10,10,-10,10', Names='A,B,C', Units='U,U,U')
    mdHistoWS=CreateMDHistoWorkspace(Dimensionality=2,Extents='-3,3,-10,10',SignalInput=range(0,100),ErrorInput=range(0,100),\
                               NumberOfBins='10,10',Names='Dim1,Dim2',Units='MomentumTransfer,EnergyTransfer')

    myWorkspaceList = [histoWS,eventWS,svWS,tableWS,mdWS,mdHistoWS]
    print("Is Matrix Workspace?\tType")
    for ws in myWorkspaceList:
        print("{0}\t{1}".format(isinstance(ws, MatrixWorkspace), ws.id()))


Output:

.. testoutput:: CheckMatrixWorkspace
    :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

    histoWS is a Workspace2D and can be treated as a Matrix Workspace

    For more Matrix Workspace types
    Is Matrix Workspace? Type
    True        Workspace2D
    True        EventWorkspace
    True        WorkspaceSingleValue
    False       TableWorkspace
    False       MDEventWorkspace<MDLeanEvent,3>
    False       MDHistoWorkspace


Matrix Workspace Properties
###########################

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceProperties

  from mantid.simpleapi import Load
  ws = Load("MAR11015")

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceProperties

  # To find out the number of histograms in a workspace use getNumberHistograms()
  print("number of histograms = {0}".format(ws.getNumberHistograms()))

  # To find out the number of bins along the x-axis use blocksize()
  print("number of bins = {0}".format(ws.blocksize()))
  # To find out the bin containing a value use yIndexOfX()
  print("bin index containing 502.2 for a histogram (0 by default) = {0}".format(ws.yIndexOfX(502.2)))
  print("bin index containing 997.1 for histogram 272 = {0}".format(ws.yIndexOfX(997.1,272)))

  # To find a workspace index from a spectrum number
  print("workspace index for histogram 272 = {0}".format(ws.getIndexFromSpectrumNumber(272)))
  # To get the Run Number use getRunNumber()
  print("run number = {0}".format(ws.getRunNumber()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceProperties

    number of histograms = 922
    number of bins = 2663
    bin index containing 502.2 for a histogram (0 by default) = 19
    bin index containing 997.1 for histogram 272 = 39
    workspace index for histogram 272 = 271
    run number = 11015

Instrument
^^^^^^^^^^

You can get access to the :ref:`Instrument` for a workspace with

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceInstrument

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceInstrument

  instrument = ws.getInstrument()

For the properties and operations of the instrument look at the :ref:`Instrument help <Instrument>`.

Run - to access logs, and other run information
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You can get access to the :ref:`Run` for a workspace with

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceRun

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceRun

  run = ws.getRun()

For the properties and operations of the run object and how to access log data look at the :ref:`Run help <Run>`.

Axes
^^^^

Axes are used primarily for labeling plots, but are also used as validation criteria for several algorithms.
You can list out the axes of a workspace using the following code.

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAxes

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()
  for i in range(ws.axes()):
      axis = ws.getAxis(i)
      print("Axis {0} is a {1}{2}{3}".format(i,
                                             "Spectrum Axis" if axis.isSpectra() else "",
                                             "Text Axis" if axis.isText() else "",
                                             "Numeric Axis" if axis.isNumeric() else ""))

      unit = axis.getUnit()
      print("\t caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
      print("\t symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceAxes
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  Axis 0 is a Numeric Axis
     caption:Time-of-flight
     symbol:microsecond
  Axis 1 is a Spectrum Axis
     caption:Spectrum
     symbol:



**Setting the axisLabel**


.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesLabel

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()
  axis = ws.getAxis(1)
  # Create a new axis
  axis.setUnit("Label").setLabel('Temperature', 'K')

  unit = axis.getUnit()
  print("New caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
  print("New symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesLabel
  :options: +ELLIPSIS,+NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  New caption:Temperature
  New symbol:K



**Replacing the Axis**

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesReplace

  from mantid.simpleapi import Load
  ws = Load("MAR11015")

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesReplace

  from mantid.api import NumericAxis

  axis = ws.getAxis(1)
  unit = axis.getUnit()
  print("Old caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
  print("Old symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

  # Create a new axis
  newAxis = NumericAxis.create(ws.getNumberHistograms())
  newAxis.setUnit("Label").setLabel('Temperature', 'K')

  # Set the vertical axis values
  for idx in range(0, ws.getNumberHistograms()):
      tempValue = idx*3+25 # some made up value
      newAxis.setValue(idx, tempValue)

  # Replace axis 1 with the new axis
  ws.replaceAxis(1, newAxis)

  axis = ws.getAxis(1)
  unit = axis.getUnit()
  print("New caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
  print("New symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))
  print("New values: {0}".format(axis.extractValues()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceAxesReplace
    :options: +ELLIPSIS,+NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

    Old caption:Spectrum
    Old symbol:
    New caption:Temperature
    New symbol:K
    New values: [ 25. 28. ... 2785. 2788.]



**Setting the Y Label**

.. figure:: ../images/PlotMatrixWorkspaceYUnitElephants.png
   :alt: PlotMatrixWorkspaceYUnitElephants.png
   :align: right

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceYUnit

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceYUnit

  print(ws.YUnitLabel())
  ws.setYUnitLabel("Elephants")
  print(ws.YUnitLabel())

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceYUnit

  Counts
  Elephants

.. _MatrixWorkspace_Plotting:

Plotting
^^^^^^^^

You can specify the type of plot to be used when plotting a Matrix Workspace. The following plot types are available:
``plot``, ``marker``, ``errorbar_x``, ``errorbar_y``, ``errorbar_xy``. By default all Matrix Workspaces will be
treated as a ``plot`` type and this value will not auto-update or affect existing workspace plots. Changing the plot
type will affect the way the data is displayed. An example of the different plot types can be seen in :ref:`mantid.plots`.
Below is a simple example changing the plot type, a full example is available in the :ref:`plotting gallery<MarkerWS_Example>` page.

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspacePlotType

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspacePlotType

    print(ws.getPlotType())
    ws.setPlotType("marker")
    print(ws.getPlotType())

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspacePlotType

  plot
  marker

**Setting Plot Marker**

When plotting multiple marker workspaces it may be necessary to set the marker type for each workspace.
If no marker is set, the default will be used from the :ref:`Properties File <Properties File>`. Marker style can be changed using the following code:

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceMarker

  from mantid.simpleapi import CreateSampleWorkspace
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceMarker

    ws.setMarkerStyle("circle")
    print(ws.getMarkerStyle())

Output:

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceMarker

  circle

Matrix Workspace Operations
###########################


.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceOperations

  from mantid.simpleapi import *
  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceOperations

  # To create a copy of a workspace
  wsClone = ws.clone()
  # or
  wsClone = CloneWorkspace(ws)

  # To check if two variables point to the same workspace
  if ws == wsClone:
      print("They are the same workspace")

  # To check if two workspaces have equal values
  if ws.equals(wsClone, tolerance = 0.05):
      print("They have the same data")

  # To create a copy of a workspace
  wsWavelength = ws.convertUnits(Target="Wavelength")
  # or
  wsWavelength = ConvertUnits(ws,Target="Wavelength")

  # To rebin the workspace
  ws = ws.rebin(Params = 200)
  # or
  ws = Rebin(ws, Params = 200)

  # Mask detectors or spectra (or use the MaskDetectors algorithm
  ws.maskDetectors(SpectraList=[2,3,4])
  ws.maskDetectors(WorkspaceIndexList=range(101,105))
  ws.maskDetectors(DetectorList=[150,160,170])

  # To delete the workspace
  ws.delete()
  # or
  DeleteWorkspace(wsClone)
  # Do not access the python variable again as you will get a RuntimeError
  # e.g. RuntimeError: Variable invalidated, data has been deleted.

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceOperations
  :hide:

  They have the same data

Accessing Data
##############

A Matrix Workspace is essentially a 2D list of binned data where a workspace index, starting at 0, gives access to the data fields in each spectra.


The data is accessed using the ``readX()``, ``readY()`` and ``readE()`` commands. Each of these commands takes a number that refers to the index on the workspace and returns a list of the data for that workspace index, i.e

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceData

  from mantid.simpleapi import Load
  ws = Load("MAR11015")

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceData

  # Get the Y vector for the second row of data
  y_data2 = ws.readY(1)
  for y in y_data2:
      print(y)

  # Or in loop access. Print the first value in all spectra
  for index in range(0, ws.getNumberHistograms()):
      #Note the round brackets followed by the square brackets
      print(ws.readY(index)[0])

.. testoutput:: MatrixWorkspaceData
    :hide:
    :options: +ELLIPSIS,+NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

    24571.0
    13761.0
    ...
    62.0
    95.0

There are more examples how to :ref:`Extract and manipulate workspace data here <07_extract_manipulate_data>`.

.. _MatrixWorkspace Algebra:

Workspace algebra
#################

Matrix Workspaces can have algebraic operations applied to them directly without the need to call a specific algorithm, e.g. :ref:`Plus <algm-Plus>`


The expected operations of +,-,*,/ are supported with either a single number or another workspace as the second argument, e.g.

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceAlgebra

  from mantid.simpleapi import *
  workspace1 = Load("MAR11015")
  workspace2 = CloneWorkspace(workspace1)

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAlgebra

  w1 = mtd['workspace1']
  w2 = mtd['workspace2']

  # Sum the two workspaces and place the output into a third
  w3 = w1 + w2

  # Multiply the new workspace by 2 and place the output into a new workspace
  w4 = w3 * 2

It is also possible to replace one of the input workspaces using one of +=,-=,*=,/= e.g.

.. testsetup:: MatrixWorkspaceAlgebra2

  from mantid.simpleapi import *
  w1= Load("MAR11015")
  w2= CloneWorkspace(w1)

.. testcode:: MatrixWorkspaceAlgebra2

  # Multiply a workspace by 2 and replace w1 with the output
  w1 *= 2.0

  # Add 'workspace2' to 'workspace1' and replace 'workspace1' with the output
  w1 += w2


.. include:: WorkspaceNavigation.txt


.. categories:: Concepts
