docs/source/concepts/UnitFactory.rst, before:

.. _Unit Factory:

=====
Units
=====

.. contents::
  :local:

What are units?
---------------

Units are a set of small classes in Mantid that define a unit of measure, and the conversions between various units.

The Unit Factory is a :ref:`Dynamic Factory <Dynamic Factory>` that creates
and hands out instances of Mantid Unit objects.

Available TOF Convertible units
-------------------------------

The following units are available in the default Mantid distribution. These units are TOF convertible.

+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                      | ID (as known by Unit Factory)   | Unit                        | Relevant equation                                                                                                |
+===========================================+=================================+=============================+==================================================================================================================+
| Time of flight                            | TOF                             | :math:`\mu s`               | TOF                                                                                                              |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Wavelength                                | Wavelength                      | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}`        | :math:`\lambda = \frac{h}{p} = \frac{h \times \mathrm{tof}}{m_N \times L_{tot}}` (see below)                     |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Energy                                    | Energy                          | :math:`meV`                 | :math:`E = \frac{1}{2} mv^2 = \frac{m_N}{2} \left ( \frac{L_{tot}}{\mathrm{tof}} \right )^2`                     |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Energy in wavenumber                      | Energy\_inWavenumber            | :math:`cm^{-1}`             | :math:`8.06554465 \times E`                                                                                      |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Momentum (k)                              | Momentum                        | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}^{-1}`   | :math:`k = \frac{2 \pi }{\lambda}=\frac{2 \pi \times m_N \times L_{tot}}{h \times \mathrm{tof}}`                 |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| d-spacing                                 | dSpacing                        | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}`        | :math:`TOF = DIFA \, d^2 + DIFC d + TZERO` (see below)                                                           |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Momentum transfer (Q)                     | MomentumTransfer                | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}^{-1}`   | :math:`Q = 2 \, k \, sin \, \theta = \frac{4 \pi sin \theta}{\lambda}`                                           |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Momentum transfer squared (:math:`Q^2`)   | QSquared                        | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}^{-2}`   | :math:`Q^2 \frac{}{}`                                                                                            |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Energy transfer                           | DeltaE                          | :math:`meV`                 | :math:`\Delta E = E_{i}-\frac{1}{2}m_N \left ( \frac{L_2}{\mathrm{tof}-L_1\sqrt{\frac{m_N}{2E_i}}} \right )^2`   |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Energy transfer in wavenumber             | DeltaE\_inWavenumber            | :math:`cm^{-1}`             | :math:`8.06554465 \times \Delta E`                                                                               |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Spin Echo Length                          | SpinEchoLength                  | :math:`nm`                  | | :math:`constant \times \lambda^2`                                                                              |
|                                           |                                 |                             | |  The constant is supplied in eFixed                                                                            |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Spin Echo Time                            | SpinEchoTime                    | :math:`ns`                  | | :math:`constant \times \lambda^3`                                                                              |
|                                           |                                 |                             | |  The constant is supplied in eFixed                                                                            |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| d-spacingPerpendicular                    | dSpacingPerpendicular           | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}`        | :math:`d_{\perp} = \sqrt{\lambda^2 - 2\log\cos\theta}`                                                           |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


Where :math:`L_1` and :math:`L_2` are sample to the source and sample to
detector distances respectively, :math:`L_{tot} = L_1+L_2` and
:math:`E_i` is the energy of neutrons leaving the source. :math:`\theta`
here is the Bragg scattering angle (e.g. half of the
:math:`\theta`-angle used in spherical coordinate system directed along
Mantid z-axis)

**Note on Wavelength**: If the emode property in
:ref:`ConvertUnits <algm-ConvertUnits>`
is specified as inelastic Direct/Indirect (inelastic) then the
conversion to wavelength will take into account the fixed initial/final
energy respectively. Units conversion into elastic momentum transfer
(MomentumTransfer) will throw in elastic mode (emode=0) on inelastic
workspace (when energy transfer is specified along x-axis)

**Note on d-spacing**: The coefficients DIFA, DIFC and TZERO may be obtained
via calibration of a TOF diffraction instrument. In the absence of a calibration,
DIFA=TZERO=0 and the default value of DIFC is:

:math:`DIFC = 10^{-4} \frac{m_N}{h} (L_1 + L_2) 2 \sin(\theta)`

where the scaling factor adjusts for the fact that DIFC is required in units
of :math:`\mu s` per :math:`\mathrm{\AA}`.

**d-spacingPerpendicular** is a unit invented in `J. Appl. Cryst. (2015) 48, pp. 1627--1636 <https://doi.org/10.1107/S1600576715016520>`_ for 2D Rietveld refinement
of angular and wavelength-dispersive neutron time-of-flight powder diffraction data. Together with the d-Spacing :math:`d`,
d-SpacingPerpendicular :math:`d_{\perp}` forms a new orthogonal coordinate system.

Available non-TOF Convertible units
-----------------------------------

The following units are available in the default Mantid distribution. These units cannot be converted to or from TOF.

+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                      | ID (as known by Unit Factory)   | Unit                        | Description                                                                                                      |
+===========================================+=================================+=============================+==================================================================================================================+
|                                           | Empty                           | No unit                     | An empty label                                                                                                   |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| t                                         | Time                            | :math:`s`                   | An independent unit of time not related to energy or TOF                                                         |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Scattering angle                          | Degrees                         | :math:`degrees`             | Degrees is a measurement of angular position                                                                     |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Temperature                               | Temperature                     | :math:`K`                   | Temperature in Kelvin                                                                                            |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


Working with Units in Python
----------------------------

Accessing units on workspaces
#############################

Units on MatrixWorkspaces are accessed via the Axis.

.. testcode:: UnitWorkspaceAxes


  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()
  for i in range(ws.axes()):
      axis = ws.getAxis(i)
      print("Axis {0} is a {1}{2}{3}".format(i,
                                             "Spectrum Axis" if axis.isSpectra() else "",
                                             "Text Axis" if axis.isText() else "",
                                             "Numeric Axis" if axis.isNumeric() else ""))

      unit = axis.getUnit()
      print("\t caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
      print("\t symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: UnitWorkspaceAxes
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  Axis 0 is a Numeric Axis
     caption:Time-of-flight
     symbol:microsecond
  Axis 1 is a Spectrum Axis
     caption:Spectrum
     symbol:


Setting the axisLabel to a Label of your choice
###############################################


.. testcode:: UnitAxesLabel

  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()
  axis = ws.getAxis(1)
  # Create a new axis
  axis.setUnit("Label").setLabel('Temperature', 'K')

  unit = axis.getUnit()
  print("New caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
  print("New symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: UnitAxesLabel
  :options: +ELLIPSIS,+NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  New caption:Temperature
  New symbol:K


Adding new units
----------------

Writing and adding a new unit is relatively straightforward.
Instructions will appear here in due course. In the meantime if a unit
that you require is missing, then please contact the development team
and we will add it to the default Mantid library.



.. categories:: Concepts

Commit message:

Move GSAS equation information
- The GSAS equation information would be best situated in the Unit Factory concept documentation. This commit makes that change and updates references to this concept documentation instead.

docs/source/concepts/UnitFactory.rst, after:

.. _Unit Factory:

=====
Units
=====

.. contents::
  :local:

What are units?
---------------

Units are a set of small classes in Mantid that define a unit of measure, and the conversions between various units.

The Unit Factory is a :ref:`Dynamic Factory <Dynamic Factory>` that creates
and hands out instances of Mantid Unit objects.

Available TOF Convertible units
-------------------------------

The following units are available in the default Mantid distribution. These units are TOF convertible.

+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                      | ID (as known by Unit Factory)   | Unit                        | Relevant equation                                                                                                |
+===========================================+=================================+=============================+==================================================================================================================+
| Time of flight                            | TOF                             | :math:`\mu s`               | TOF                                                                                                              |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Wavelength                                | Wavelength                      | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}`        | :math:`\lambda = \frac{h}{p} = \frac{h \times \mathrm{tof}}{m_N \times L_{tot}}` (see below)                     |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Energy                                    | Energy                          | :math:`meV`                 | :math:`E = \frac{1}{2} mv^2 = \frac{m_N}{2} \left ( \frac{L_{tot}}{\mathrm{tof}} \right )^2`                     |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Energy in wavenumber                      | Energy\_inWavenumber            | :math:`cm^{-1}`             | :math:`8.06554465 \times E`                                                                                      |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Momentum (k)                              | Momentum                        | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}^{-1}`   | :math:`k = \frac{2 \pi }{\lambda}=\frac{2 \pi \times m_N \times L_{tot}}{h \times \mathrm{tof}}`                 |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| d-spacing                                 | dSpacing                        | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}`        | :math:`TOF = DIFA \, d^2 + DIFC d + TZERO` (see below)                                                           |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Momentum transfer (Q)                     | MomentumTransfer                | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}^{-1}`   | :math:`Q = 2 \, k \, sin \, \theta = \frac{4 \pi sin \theta}{\lambda}`                                           |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Momentum transfer squared (:math:`Q^2`)   | QSquared                        | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}^{-2}`   | :math:`Q^2 \frac{}{}`                                                                                            |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Energy transfer                           | DeltaE                          | :math:`meV`                 | :math:`\Delta E = E_{i}-\frac{1}{2}m_N \left ( \frac{L_2}{\mathrm{tof}-L_1\sqrt{\frac{m_N}{2E_i}}} \right )^2`   |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Energy transfer in wavenumber             | DeltaE\_inWavenumber            | :math:`cm^{-1}`             | :math:`8.06554465 \times \Delta E`                                                                               |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Spin Echo Length                          | SpinEchoLength                  | :math:`nm`                  | | :math:`constant \times \lambda^2`                                                                              |
|                                           |                                 |                             | |  The constant is supplied in eFixed                                                                            |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Spin Echo Time                            | SpinEchoTime                    | :math:`ns`                  | | :math:`constant \times \lambda^3`                                                                              |
|                                           |                                 |                             | |  The constant is supplied in eFixed                                                                            |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| d-spacingPerpendicular                    | dSpacingPerpendicular           | :math:`\mathrm{\AA}`        | :math:`d_{\perp} = \sqrt{\lambda^2 - 2\log\cos\theta}`                                                           |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


Where :math:`L_1` and :math:`L_2` are sample to the source and sample to
detector distances respectively, :math:`L_{tot} = L_1+L_2` and
:math:`E_i` is the energy of neutrons leaving the source. :math:`\theta`
here is the Bragg scattering angle (e.g. half of the
:math:`\theta`-angle used in spherical coordinate system directed along
Mantid z-axis)

**Note on Wavelength**: If the emode property in
:ref:`ConvertUnits <algm-ConvertUnits>`
is specified as inelastic Direct/Indirect (inelastic) then the
conversion to wavelength will take into account the fixed initial/final
energy respectively. Units conversion into elastic momentum transfer
(MomentumTransfer) will throw in elastic mode (emode=0) on inelastic
workspace (when energy transfer is specified along x-axis)

**Note on d-spacing**: The coefficients DIFA, DIFC and TZERO may be obtained
via calibration of a TOF diffraction instrument. In the absence of a calibration,
DIFA=TZERO=0 and the default value of DIFC is:

:math:`DIFC = 10^{-4} \frac{m_N}{h} (L_1 + L_2) 2 \sin(\theta)`

where the scaling factor adjusts for the fact that DIFC is required in units
of :math:`\mu s` per :math:`\mathrm{\AA}`.

**d-spacingPerpendicular** is a unit invented in `J. Appl. Cryst. (2015) 48, pp. 1627--1636 <https://doi.org/10.1107/S1600576715016520>`_ for 2D Rietveld refinement
of angular and wavelength-dispersive neutron time-of-flight powder diffraction data. Together with the d-Spacing :math:`d`,
d-SpacingPerpendicular :math:`d_{\perp}` forms a new orthogonal coordinate system.

**Note on converting time-of-flight to dSpacing using GSAS**
The equation in `GSAS
<https://subversion.xor.aps.anl.gov/trac/pyGSAS>`_ converts from
d-spacing (:math:`d`) to time-of-flight (:math:`TOF`) by the equation:

.. math:: TOF = DIFC * d + DIFA * d^2 + TZERO

The manual describes these terms in more detail. Roughly,
:math:`TZERO` is related to the difference between the measured and
actual time-of-flight base on emission time from the moderator, :math:`DIFA` is an empirical term (ideally zero), and :math:`DIFC` is

.. math:: DIFC = \frac{2m_N}{h} L_{tot} sin \theta

Measuring peak positions using a crystal with a very well known
lattice constant will give a good value for converting the data. The
d-spacing of the data will be calculated using whichever equation
below is appropriate for solving the quadratic.

When :math:`DIFA = 0` then the solution is just for a line and

.. math:: d = \frac{TOF - TZERO}{DIFC}

For the case of needing to solve the actual quadratic equation

.. math:: d = \frac{-DIFC}{2 DIFA} \pm \sqrt{\frac{TOF}{DIFA} + \left(\frac{DIFC}{2 DIFA}\right)^2 - \frac{TZERO}{DIFA}}

Here the positive root is used when :math:`DIFA > 0` and the negative
when :math:`DIFA < 0`.

Available non-TOF Convertible units
-----------------------------------

The following units are available in the default Mantid distribution. These units cannot be converted to or from TOF.

+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                      | ID (as known by Unit Factory)   | Unit                        | Description                                                                                                      |
+===========================================+=================================+=============================+==================================================================================================================+
|                                           | Empty                           | No unit                     | An empty label                                                                                                   |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| t                                         | Time                            | :math:`s`                   | An independent unit of time not related to energy or TOF                                                         |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Scattering angle                          | Degrees                         | :math:`degrees`             | Degrees is a measurement of angular position                                                                     |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Temperature                               | Temperature                     | :math:`K`                   | Temperature in Kelvin                                                                                            |
+-------------------------------------------+---------------------------------+-----------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+


Working with Units in Python
----------------------------

Accessing units on workspaces
#############################

Units on MatrixWorkspaces are accessed via the Axis.

.. testcode:: UnitWorkspaceAxes


  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()
  for i in range(ws.axes()):
      axis = ws.getAxis(i)
      print("Axis {0} is a {1}{2}{3}".format(i,
                                             "Spectrum Axis" if axis.isSpectra() else "",
                                             "Text Axis" if axis.isText() else "",
                                             "Numeric Axis" if axis.isNumeric() else ""))

      unit = axis.getUnit()
      print("\t caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
      print("\t symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: UnitWorkspaceAxes
  :options: +NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  Axis 0 is a Numeric Axis
     caption:Time-of-flight
     symbol:microsecond
  Axis 1 is a Spectrum Axis
     caption:Spectrum
     symbol:


Setting the axisLabel to a Label of your choice
###############################################


.. testcode:: UnitAxesLabel

  ws = CreateSampleWorkspace()
  axis = ws.getAxis(1)
  # Create a new axis
  axis.setUnit("Label").setLabel('Temperature', 'K')

  unit = axis.getUnit()
  print("New caption:{0}".format(unit.caption()))
  print("New symbol:{0}".format(unit.symbol()))

Output:

.. testoutput:: UnitAxesLabel
  :options: +ELLIPSIS,+NORMALIZE_WHITESPACE

  New caption:Temperature
  New symbol:K


Adding new units
----------------

Writing and adding a new unit is relatively straightforward.
Instructions will appear here in due course. In the meantime if a unit
that you require is missing, then please contact the development team
and we will add it to the default Mantid library.



.. categories:: Concepts
